jiun
jiun(august 24,1718-january 22,1805)was a buddhist priest of the shingon sect in the late edo period.
he emphasized buddhist precepts and advocated 'shoboritsu' (shingonritsu(literally,true word precepts)).
he was a founder of unden shinto.
he was also known as a skilled calligrapher.
his secular surname was the uezuki clan.
his imina(personal name)was onko.
his go(pen name)was hyakufuchi doji(literally,know-nothing child),katsuragi sanjin(literally,a man on mt.katsuragi)and soryu no okina(literally,an old man of twin dragon),and so on.
his title of honor was jiun sonja(buddhist saint).
he was born at kurayashiki(warehouse-residence)of takamatsu clan's located in osaka nakanoshima(osaka prefecture)(present kita-ku ward,osaka city)as a son of yasunori kozuki,became a priest at horaku-ji temple in settsu province(higashi-sumiyoshi-ku ward,osaka city)at his age of 13 in accordance with his father's will and studied esoteric buddhism and sanskrit under the guidance of sadanori shinobitsuna,the chief priest of the temple.
when he was 18 years old,he went to kyoto at the order of shinobitsuna and studied ancient confucianism under the guidance of togai ito.
in the following year,he travelled to nara to study exoteric buddhism,esoteric buddhism and the shinto religion and thereafter he started to study buddhist precepts at nonaka-dera temple(habikino city)in kawachi province under the guidance of shugen and was bestowed gusokukai(taking the full precepts)in 1738.
in the following year,he received kanjo(a ceremony to be the successor)from shinobitsuna and assumed the position of the chief priest of horaku-ji temple,but he handed over the position to a fellow priest two years later.
thereafter,he visited daibai,a priest of soto sect in shinano province,and studied the zen sect as well.
in 1744,he restored choei-ji temple(higashiosaka city)in kawachi,assumed the position of the chief priest and conducted his first lecture on buddhist precepts,and thereafter he continued ascetic training and lectures on mt.koya and other places in the kinki region.
from 1758,he stayed at a tea hut called soryuan on mt.ikomayama,concentrated on studying and wrote 1,000 volumes of "bongakushinryo",a book of sanskrit research.
in this book,he rejected the magical interpretation of sanskrit which was prevalent in the world of esoteric buddhism and tried to correctly understand the contents of the original buddhist scriptures written in sanskrit,by studying sanskrit grammar.
the contents of "bongakushinryo" were highly valued by silvain revie,a french researcher of sanskrit who came to japan during the meiji period.
he wrote "juzen hogo" (sermons on the ten good precepts)in 1775.
in 1776,he joined koki-ji temple(anan-cho,minamikawachi-gun)in kawachi.
with the support of yasumitsu yanagisawa,a feudal lord of the koriyama clan,he repaired the temple buildings of koki-ji temple and selected this temple as the head temple of shoboritsu.
it is said that as yasumitsu was a devout believer in jiun,he buried his hair beside jiun's tomb when he took the tonsure after the death of jiun.
in his last years,he advocated his own shinto thoughts and decided on iwafune-jinja shrine(kanan-cho)as the konpondojo(fundamental training hall).
the shinto religion which jiun advocated was called 'unden shinto' in later years.
in 1804,he ended his life at amida-ji temple in kyoto.
