ryaku kataginu(buddhist stall worn around the neck)
ryaku kataginu is a hogu(ritual implements)that followers of shinshu sect otani school dangle from their neck as a ceremonial dress before the altar of a temple.
dakibotanmon(a family crest with a design of a peony flower surrounded by leaves),the shumon(crest of a sect),etc.are embroidered.
its appearance resembles tatami-gesa(buddhist stole which can be folded).
in past days,they wore kataginu(short sleeveless garments made of hemp),but because they were heavy and hard to carry,kataginu was simplified into ryaku kataginu and approved.
montoshikisho(buddhist tools used by followers)
montoshikisho is a similar hogu used in the jodo shinshu hongan-ji school.
their shumon is the sagarifuji(hanging wisteria)crest.
naming
ryaku kataginu and montoshikisho may be also called hangesa(half surplice)and montogesa(buddhist surplice used by followers)respectively.
in the jodo shinshu sect,however,kesa means hogu that priests wear,so this is not a correct expression.
the knots in strings of ryaku kataginu and montoshikisho are different from knots of hangesa used in other sects.
how to get
commercial products
they are available in butsugu(buddhist altar fittings)stores that are familiar with jodo shinshu sect.
recently,they are also available on the internet.
some temples distribute them as a commemorative items of the temple the followers belong to.
head temple grant
they are conferred as a commemorative of okamisori(a buddhist ceremony which is to confirm a follower as a certain level of religious steps)held in the head temple etc.
on shot dark blue cloth,white sotomuki itsutsukan mon is embroidered.
the string is birch color(dark yellowish red).
this ryaku kataginu is not for sale,but proof of becoming a believer.
if a follower loses it,he/she must obtain it from the head temple through the temple he/she belongs to.
cautions for handling
like nenju(rosary),do not put it directly in your bag,but place it in a kesa bag,etc.when you carry it.
do not put it on a place where people walk,such as on tatami mats.
place it on your bag or kesa bag.
do not wear it when you go to the rest room.
