kenshun
kenshun(1299-august 2,1357)was a monk of shingon sect in the period of the northern and southern courts(japan).
his father was toshimitsu hino,a gon dainagon(provisional major counselor).
sukena hino was his brother.
his secular name was takatoshi hino.
he was the daisojo(a buddhist priest of the highest order)of bosatsu-ji temple.
he studied the esoteric buddhism under kenjo of hochiin school,daigo-ji temple.
in the internal disturbances in the period of the northern and southern courts(japan),he took takauji ashikaga's side and excluded monkan,a monk who had wielded power taking advantage of emperor godaigo's trust,and in 1336,he was appointed to the gon daisojo(second-ranking buddhist priest),becoming the head of daigo-ji temple and negoro-ji temple.
when takauji made an escape to kyushu region in april and may of the same year,he accompanied takauji and unified takauji's troops at the front by integrating divergent opinions among subordinates.
he also fulfilled his duty to convey a command from a retired emperor emperor kogen of jimyoin-to line(imperial lineage from emperor gofukakusa to emperor gokomatsu,northern court of japan)and hand the imperial standard(made of gold brocade)to takauji,which laid the foundation of the relationship between the ashikaga shogunal family and the hino family.
wielding power as takauji's gojiso(a monk working for a noble family),he not only established a buddhist temple at daigo-ji temple after receiving a donated fief of 60,000 koku(approximately 10.8 million liters of crop yield),but also established shin sanpoin in kyoto,becoming the inju(the chief of a temple)after the new established temple was donated.
he assumed the post of to-ji choja(the chief abbot of to-ji temple)in 1340 and the post of homu daisojo(the highest buddhist priest managing buddhistic ceremonies and giving a certificate to monks and nuns)in 1342.
he resigned his post as to-ji choja in 1350 to accompany takauji to the kyushu region for suppressing dissidents.
in addition to "the portrait of sanpoin kenshun" owned by daigo-ji temple, "sanpoin kenshun sojo nikki" (diary of kenshun,sanpoin temple)is left.
