jokai
jokai(february 1,1074-may 20,1149)was a buddhist monk of the shingon sect who lived during the late heian period.
his lay surname had been minamoto,from murakami-genji(minamoto clan).
his father was minamoto no akifusa,minister of the right.
he was a half brother by a different mother of fujiwara no kenshi(the legal wife of emperor shirakawa),minamoto no masazane who was a chancellor of sate,and minamoto no shishi(the wife of fujiwara no tadazane).
he was also called as the sanboin dai sojo or josho sojo.
when he was small,he studied under his cousin,shokaku sanboin(the child of minamoto no toshifusa who was the minister of the left).
in 1101 at muryokoin he was given denpo kanjo(the ceremony to be invested ajari,the rank of master).
being installed the 16th head priest of daigo-ji temple in 1116 he endeavored for the prosperity of the temple,reconstructing yakushi do(the temple of bhaisa jyaguru)of kami daigo temple,constructing the east building for resident priests,and starting kiyotaki e(the buddhist service to enjoy the cherry blossoms).
in may or june of 1129 he became betto(the head secretary)of todai-ji temple.
in february or march of the next year,1130,he was assigned as sogo,the managerial post of priests.
in the intercalary april(may or june in the solar calendar of)1132,he was promoted to to-ji choja,the head priest of to-ji temple,and gon dai sozu(the provisional second highest position,upper grade,of priest)in june or july of the same year.
in november or december of 1135 he was further promoted to gon sojo(the provisional highest position)and then sojo(the highest position)in january or february of 1137.
because he jumped over genkaku(the son of fujiwara no morozane)who was the betto of kofuku-ji temple as a result of this personnel change,the monks and believers of kofuku-ji temple rebelled and filed a complaint;thus he was suspended from the position of sojo for a while.
in november or december 1139,he was promoted to dai sojo(the highest position,upper grade),and it was the first time that a priest of daigo-ji temple was assigned to dai sojo.
he was invited to many buddhist services,mainly those relating to emperor shirakawa and emperor toba.
he served many buddhist services such as one for the new amida do(the temple of amitabha)(lotus flower storage temple)in november or december of 1114,another for the five-storied pagoda of hossho-ji temple in february or march of 1127,for kutai shin amida do(the building for nine new amida statues)of hossho-ji temple in august or september of 1130,for tokuchojuin temple in march or april of 1132,and ichiji kinrin do of tokuchojuin temple in may or june of 1134.
he gave(served)kujaku kyoho(the ritual of incantation and prayer for mahamayuri-vidyarajni,for averting disasters,for rain,against illness,or for safe childbirth)several times.
in 1145 he resigned all his posts,and passed away on may 17 of the same year at the age of seventy-six.
his writings included a volume of "daiji ki," the record of the daiji era,and another volume of "hoen ki," the record of the hoen era.
his disciples included genkai and ikkai.
