他力本願 "tariki hongan"
tarikihongan(salvation by faith in amitabha)has the following meanings:
the first meaning is the "hongan," the original vow or pranidhana made by amida buddha,or amitabha.
this idea provides the foundation of jodo kyo(pure land teachings)with its belief in amida.
the second meaning is "relying on others" and "letting things take their course."
these usages are converted from the original meaning mentioned above.
at present,the phrase "tariki hongan" is used for both types of the meanings mentioned above.
both groups of meanings are found in popular japanese-japanese dictionaries such as "daijirin" or "kojien," and are used generally.
each meaning is described below in detail.
the first meaning
the second character力,which is pronounced as "riki," of他力本願means力用 "rikiyu" and indicates work.
in this sense tariki(other power)means the work done by others,but not by oneself.
however,when the word "tariki" is combined with "hongan," the original vow,and makes the phrase "tariki hongan," the meaning of "tariki" is completely different.
let us look into ken jodo shinjitsu kyogyosho monrui(the true teaching,practice and realization of the pure land way)written by shinran.
shinran wrote, "tariki means the power or work of the original vow made by amida."
so the priests of the jodo kyo interpreted tariki as the work of the original vow made by amida buddha.
because of the power of hongan made by amida buddha himself,mankind is able to be born in the pure land.
that is why it is called "tariki(other power)hongan."
"tariki "exactly means "the power of the original vow made by amida buddha."
furthermore it is thought to mean that birth in the pure land would not be accomplished by one's own work or acts.
in this sense the antonym of "tariki" (other power)is "jiriki" (self power).
however,in the thoughts of the jodo kyo,especially of the jodo shin shu(true pure land sect buddhism),the antonym of "jiriki" is "tariki hongan," but not "tariki."
shinran interpreted that tariki hongan was the power of the original vow made by amida buddha,and that the power worked not only for the people's birth in the pure land,but also kept working for the present moment in the people's real lives as well.
for him,it was not just about the jodo sects idea of dying a happy death but,it was explained that to die a future happy death in the jodo sect was to confirm ones faith in buddhism by achieving rebirth in the present(gensho).
he also taught that people were alive because of the power of compassion or hongan,which came from the wisdom of amida buddha.
the second meaning
the second group of meanings of tariki hongan is mainly used in the context without a religious background,and indicates "relying on others" or "letting things take their course."
like the trinity in christianity,tariki hongan is one of the wordings in the japanese language that is sometimes used differently from their original religious concepts or meanings.
examples that lead to protests
although both groups of meanings are found in dictionaries and are used generally,various schools of the jodo shinshu sect often protest against the usage of tariki hongan in the second meaning mentioned above.
below are the examples.
in 1968,while tadao kuraishi,the minster of agriculture,forestry and fisheries at that time,was talking about japanese armament,he said something like, "in this modern world,we can not survive in the tariki hongan way," and was subject to protests from various schools of the jodo shinshu sect of buddhism.
in may 2002,olympus optical co.,ltd.(present-day olympus corporation)ran an advertisement using the phrase "let us get away from tariki hongan," in a newspaper with nationwide circulation.
the federation of shinshu temples(shinshu kyodan rengo)made a protest against the corporation saying, "the expression in the ad hurts the feelings of many followers of the shinshu sect. "
after the protest,olympus apologized for its lack of consideration.
(from the asahi newspaper,may 28,2005)
