shoji-ji temple
shoji-ji temple is a buddhist temple belonging to the tendai sect located in nishikyo ward,kyoto city.
its sango(literally, "mountain name"),which is the title prefixed to the name of a buddhist temple,is oshioyama.
the principal image is yakushi nyorai.
it is known as hana no tera(lit.flower temple).
it is the 42nd temples on the saigoku yakushi 49 sacred places pilgrimage.
history
shoji-ji temple is situated in oharano,a southwestern suburb of kyoto,adjacent to oharano-jinja shrine.
oharano-jinja shrine was founded in 784 when the divided deity of kasuga-jinja shrine(now kasuga-jinja shrine,an ancestral shrine of the fujiwara clan)in nara was enshrined during the relocation of the capital to the city of nagaoka-kyo.
since ancient times,shoji-ji temple has been famous for its cheery blossom as well as its connection to saigyo but little is known of its founding.
according to temple legend,it is reputed to have been founded by en no ozunu between the years 672 and 686.
it was later restored by saicho in 791 and named oshioyama daigen-ji temple before going on to be restored again by senkan between the years of 851 and 854.
it was destroyed by fire during the onin war but rebuilt between 1573 and 1592.
it earned the devotion of keishoin during the edo period.
cultural properties
important cultural properties(nationally designated)
wooden seated statue of yakushi nyorai:the principal image
85 cm tall.
dates from the kamakura period.
the left hand holds a gallipot while the right hand is giving a unique hand gesture as if shading the gallipot.
wooden seated statue of yakushi nyorai:this statue is small at 9.1 cm but is delicately crafted with images of the shichibutsu yakushi(seven healing buddhas)and juni shinsho(twelve protective deities)depicted in the halo.
it dates from the first part of the heian period.
wooden standing statue of kongo rikishi:dates from 1285 and carries inscriptions of the names hogen keishu and hokkyo[illegible].
oharanosenku renga kaishi(writing sheets of renga(early japanese poetry form)in oharano senku gathering of linked verse)
address
1194 oharanominamikasuga-cho,nishikyo ward,kyoto city
