daishi-do hall
daishi-do hall is a type of buddhist hall in japan built to enshrine and pray to a priest who was entitled as daishi(literally a great master,an honorific title given by the imperial court).
although most buddhist halls called 'daishi-do' enshrine kukai(kobo daishi)(774-835)who was the founder of the shingon sect,there are some halls called 'daishido' which enshrine enchin(chisho daishi)and ryogen(gensan daishi,jikei daishi).
the daishi-dos in the shikoku's eighty-eight sacred places.
every temple in the shikoku's eighty-eight sacred places surely has a daishi-do which enshrines kukai,and it is common to visit to pray the daishi-do as well as the hondo(main hall).
there is a certain manner to visit and carry out prayer as described below.
make a bow at the front of the sanmon gate(temple gate),wash the hands and rinse the mouth at the mizuya(washing place),then toward the hondo,serve senko(incense stick)and candle,dedicate a shirofuda which is regarded as a hand-copied sutra of the hannya-shingyo then chant the hannya-shingyo sutra.
then,repeat the same procedure at the front of the daishi-do.
after that,get the nokyo shuin(temple stamp)on the nokyo cho(prayer book),oizuru(thin,sleeveless over garment worn by pilgrims),hanging scroll etc.
at last,bow again when leaving the sanmon.
others
there many shops called daishi-do named after kobo daishi which are butugu(buddhist religious objects)shop,gravestone shop,funeral business,acupuncture clinic and so on.
examples of famous daishi-dos
the onjo-ji temple(mii-dera temple)daishi-do,the important cultural property.
it enshrines the statue of enchin(chisho daishi).
it was built in 1598 in the momoyama period.
it is constructed in the hogyo-zukuri style(all the roof ridges gathering at the center)and hiwadabuki(with the bark of hinoki japanese cypress as roof material).
it is one of the important cultural property.
the negoro-ji temple daishi-do,(hall for the great teacher in negoro-ji),the important cultural property.
it survived the attacking and burning by hideyoshi along with the daito(large stupa).
it is assumed that the daishi-do was built around 1391.
the okura-ji temple daishi-do(uda city),the important cultural property.
it was built in the kamakura period.
it is constructed in the hogyo-zukuri style and kokera-buki(roof thatched with thin wood shingles),and this is the oldest daishi-do in japan.
anrakuju-in temple daishi-do:it was rebuild using the material of the shinmito pagoda which had collapsed with the earthquake in 1596.
suma-dera temple daishi-do:the completion ceremony was held at october 17,2007.
the daishi-do of each temples in the shikoku's eighty-eight sacred places.
