ryuhon-ji temple
ryuhon-ji temple,located in kamigyo ward,kyoto city,is one of the original temples(with a long historical lineage)of the nichiren sect of buddhism.
it is considered one of the twenty-one hokke sect temples in the central kyoto.
it is also one of the sangusokuzan,or "three complete(hokke)temples," along with myoken-ji and myokaku-ji temples.
before the meiji restoration,it is said that ryuhon-ji temple possessed temple lands of about 33 square kilometers and 20 sub-temples;today,only four sub-temples remain:shogyoin,kyohoin,kogenin,and dairinin.
the grave of shoeki haiya,a wealthy merchant of the edo period who was also notable for his cultural achievements,is located on the temple grounds.
the temple is also a famous spot to view sakura(cherry)flowers in spring and lotus flowers in summer.
history
the temple's history begins with the establishment of myoken-ji temple on shijo-dori and kushige-dori avenues in 1341 thanks to the efforts of the monk nichizo.
in 1387 it was destroyed by the militant clergy of mt.hiei.
in 1393 it was rebuilt at shijo-dori and kushige-dori avenues.
it was also renamed ryuhon-ji temple at this point.
it was again destroyed by the militant clergy of mt.hiei in 1413.
the temple thereupon sought to escape danger by relocating to tanba province.
in 1416,the old grounds of ryuhon-ji temple at shijo-dori and kushige-dori avenues were claimed by mt.hiei for its branch temple,and honno-ji temple was built on the site.
ryuhon-ji temple returned to the capital from tanba province and was rebuilt at gojo-dori and omiya-dori avenues,rising in opposition to honno-ji temple.
in 1536(the fifth year of the tenbun era),it was once again destroyed by the militant clergy of mt.hiei during the tenbun hokke war.
it was soon rebuilt.
then at some point during the bunroku era(1592-1596)it was relocated to kyogoku imadegawaji terano-machi on the orders of hideyoshi toyotomi.
it burned down during the great hoei fire of 1708(the fifth year of the hoei era).
it was then relocated again,and rebuilt at its current location.
the current head priest is nichizui ueda,the temple's 97th abbot.
it belongs to the seishi hoen dharma school.
cultural properties
important cultural properties
eight scrolls of navy blue paper,of a mandala illustrated in gold and silver underpaints,showing the buddhist stupa of the lotus sutra.
seven volumes(on indigo paper)of the lotus sutra and the samantabhadra contemplation sutra.
