honzen-ji temple
honzen-ji temple is a branch temple in the kyoto jinmon lineage of the hokke sect.
its sango(literally, "mountain name"),which is the title prefixed to the name of a buddhist temple,is koryosan.
the temple was built in 1406 by monso(founder)nichijin.
there are four in of tatchu(sub-temples on the site of the main temple):shinjo-in temple,senryo-in temple,genmyo-in temple and enryo-in temple.
features of honzen-ji temple
the kyoto jinmon lineage of the hokke sect(sohonzan(the head temple of a buddhist sect)is chokyuzan honjo-ji temple in sanjo,echigo province).
it's a branch temple in the kinki district(the present-day sanjo city,niigata prefecture)branch temple in kyoto,上別院).
there is a gilt bronze standing statue of shakyamuni in ryuzo-do hall,which is said to be随身仏of the founder of the religious sect,nichiren.
following tenbun-honan(tenbun hokke war)in the muromachi period,honzen-ji temple received rinji(the emperor's command)from emperor gonara to became chokugan-ji(a temple built at the order of the emperor).
in 1839,the temple became the arisugawanomiya family's place of prayer.
it is one of 21 temples of the rakuchu-hokke sect.
the bronze bell(temple bell)is said to have been cast by hideyori toyotomi and used by ieyasu tokugawa as a gong in osaka no eki(the siege of osaka);it was dedicated to the temple by hikozaemon okubo.
this is the cemetery of hikozaemon okubo,an artist,ganku,拝匠and baishitsu.
there were many successive,famous monks such as nikkaku,who was well known,along with successive daisojo(buddhist priests of the highest order).
the dharma lineage
the dharma lineage started with the founder of a religious sect,nichiren,followed by nichiro(rokuroso),nichiin(the winner of kamakura denchu mondo dialogue),and nichijo(who originated from the uesugi clan).
((the northern house of the fujiwara clan line),later removed from the succession of chief priests),nichijin(monso)).
gokaicho(exhibition of buddhist images)
the gokaicho of the founder of the religious sect,nichiren's nenjibutsu(a small statue of buddha kept beside the person), 'standing statue of shakyamuni butsu' in ryuzo-do hall is exhibited to the public twice each year,once in manninko(early april)and again in oeshiki(a buddhist(memorial)service in the nichiren sect,held on october 13).
location
it is located at 394 kitanobe machi,hirokoji-dori(kyoto city)noboru,teramachi dori,kamigyo ward,kyoto city,kyoto prefecture(northeast of kyoto imperial palace).
after exiting from seiwa-in gomon gate of kyoto imperial palace and heading north for a while from teramachi-dori,there are three famous temples:rozan-ji temple,where the remains of murasakishikibu's villa are found on the east side of the street,and the south side to the precincts of the temple,shojoke-in temple,which is famous for migawarifudo and honzen-ji temple.
it was once located on shijo-dori horikawa-dori,but it was moved to方四町in nishijin after tenbun-honan(tenbun hokke war)during the time in which nichikaku daisojo was in power.
in 1591 it moved to the site it now occupies.
sohonzan(the head temple of a buddhist sect),branch temple
sohonzan
chokyuzan honjo-ji temple(sanjo city,niigata prefecture)(echigo province)
branch temples other than honzen-ji temple
a branch temple in tokai joreizan honko-ji temple(kosai city,shizuoka prefecture)(totomi province)
a branch temple in tokyo tokueisan honmyo-ji temple(toshima ward,tokyo)(musashi province)
a branch temple in hokuriku choshozan honpo-ji temple(yatsuo-machi,toyama city,toyama prefecture)(ecchu province)
a branch temple in霊跡soganzan renchaku-ji temple(ito city,shizuoka prefecture)(izu province)
