junnyo
junnyo(august 3,1577-january 21,1632)was an individual from the azuchi-momoyama period and edo period.
he was the 12th monshu(a head priest)of hongan-ji temple.
he was the third son of kennyo,the 11th monshu,and a brother of kyonyo.
his imina(a personal name)was kosho.
triggered by junnyo's succession to monshu,instead of his brother,who was at odds with their father,hongwan-ji temple split into east and west.
in the ishiyama war,his father kennyo made peace with nobunaga oda and departed from ishiyama hongan-ji temple to saginomori of kii province in 1580.
after that,kennyo moved to osaka tenma,upon being given the land of a temple by hideyoshi toyotomi,and moved to shichijo horikawa in kyoto(the present location of hongan-ji temple)after being given land again by hideyoshi again in 1591.
as a result,junnyo also came to kyoto and,when kennyo died the following year(1592),he succeeded to kennyo's position,becoming the 12th monshu of hongan-ji temple in 1593.
nishi hongan-ji temple claimed that junnyo's brother kyonyo was basically at odds with their father,as was evident when he withdrew to ishiyama hongan-ji temple in 1580 despite his father having given up his resistance to the oda clan,and he was closely watched by hideyoshi as well when he succeeded oda nobunaga,so it was natural that rennyo became the next monshu.
kenson,the second son of kennyo(half brother of kyonyo)supported junnyo as his guardian,forcing his daughter to marry him.
it is said that succession to the position of monshu by junnyo,the third son,was eventually realized when his mother turned to hideyoshi,who was then a vassal of nobunaga,for help.
it is said that junnyo was at odds with his half-brother kyonyo as well(there is,however,another theory that suggests his mother may have shared the same mother as junnyo,nyoshun-ni).
however,after hideyoshi toyotomi died,ieyasu tokugawa,who defeated the toyotomi family,supported kyonyo and gave land for a temple in karasuma shichijo to kyonyo in 1602,which led to the establishment of higashi hongwan-ji temple.
for this reason,the hongwan-ji temple in shichijo horikawa,which junnyo succeeded,became to be called nishi hongan-ji temple,which led to the east-west split of the honganji buddhist sect.
after that,junnyo assumed daisojo(a buddhist priest of the highest order)by imperial order in 1608 and made efforts to broaden the influence of nishi hongan-ji temple,building tsumura betsuin branch temple in osaka and tsukiji betsuin branch temple in edo.
