kanjo
kanjo is a ceremony mainly celebrated in esoteric buddhism,in which a legitimate successor is declared by pouring water over the top of the head.
it originated as a ceremony that celebrated enthronement of the kind or investiture of the crown prince in india,which used to be called tenjiku.
examples includes kanbutsu-e,which is a ceremony that commemorates buddha's birthday;esoteric buddhism complicated the ceremony.
there are a variety of ceremonies that are used on different occasions.
in japan,it is believed that saicho conducted the first kanjo at jingo-ji temple at mt.takao in 805(saicho received the teachings of himitsu(secret)kanjo from jungyo at ryuko-ji temple when he visited tang,and later received kanjo in kongokai(diamond realm)and taizokai(womb realm)that were brought from kukai.
the types of kanjo are described below.
kechien-kanjo
in this type of kanjo,a person who enters priesthood chooses his or her guardian deity.
it features toke tokubutsu,in which a blindfolded new initiate throws a flower onto mandala to choose his or her tutelary god depending on where the flower lands;the new initiate connects with the god.
the mandala includes kijin(fierce god)and rakshasa(type of evil spirit)but new initiates learn how to worship and celebrate those gods in case they select them.
kukai conducted the ceremony three times;his flowers always fell on dainichi nyorai(mahavairocana).
jumyo-kanjo
it is conducted for people who are determined to practice and learn profound esoteric buddhism.
unlike kechien-kanjo,which is an introductory ceremony that connects people with gods,jumyo-kanjo is a ceremony that certifies disciples;it is also known as deshi(disciple)kanjo.
denpo-kanjo,kintai-ryobu denpo-kanjo
in this type of kanjo,the title of ajari(a master in esoteric buddhism;a high priest)is given.
only the priests who have completed an esoteric buddhism practice called shidokegyo(four trainings)are entitled to the ceremony.
in the ceremony,priests receive esoteric points of esoteric buddhism and are permitted to have disciples.
priests are allowed to teach their disciples by using buddhist scriptures as well as oral instruction and the buddha's intention and they are also allowed to officially begin a new school and a new sect.
it is also known as ajari-kanjo or jushoku-kanjo.
japan used to conduct 'sokui-kanjo' to celebrate enthronement of the emperor between the kamakura period and the end of edo period.
according to the record,gotobain and gofukakusain also received kanjo.
