rokudo chinno-ji temple
rokudo chinno-ji temple is a buddhist temple belonging to the rinzai sect kenninji school located in higashiyama ward,kyoto city,
its sango(literally, "mountain name"),which is the title prefixed to the name of a buddhist temple,is daichinzan.
the principal image is yakushi nyorai.
it is known for the rokudo mairi(six realms pilgrimage)ritual held from august 7 to 10 and the well through which ono no takamura is said to have passed into yomi(the underworld).
the temple is commonly called rokudo-san.
legend has it that rokudo-no tsuji(the intersection of six paths to the six realms)lies in the vicinity of the temple.
history
various theories exist regarding the founding of rokudo chinno-ji temple and few details are known but according to documents of to-ji temple,it was founded by yamashiro no omi between the years of 824 and 848.
it was associated with to-ji temple until the kamakura period but was restored and converted to the rinzai sect when ryoso monkei of kennin-ji temple was appointed head priest during the muromachi period,
the temple briefly merged with kennin-ji temple during the meiji period but became independent in 1910.
buildings
main hall
enma-do(takamura-do)
houses images of kobo daishi,ono no takamura and enmao
belfry
known for its mukaegane(a sacred bell to welcome departed souls home).
cultural property
important cultural property
wooden seated statue of yakushi nyorai
rokudo mairi
a ritual to welcome ancestral souls during the obon festival(festival of the dead).
visitors purchase koyamaki(japanese umbrella-pine)branches on the approach to the temple,write the posthumous buddhist names of their ancestors on wooden mizutoba tablets which they purify using water before ringing the mukaegane bell.
location
595-4 komatsu-cho,shijo-sagaru,yamato-oji-dori street(higashioji-dori street nishi-iru,matsubara-dori street),higashiyama ward,kyoto city,kyoto prefecture
take the kyoto city bus to kiyomizu michi bus stop and walk westward.
