jurasetsunyo
jurasetsunyo are ten demonesses of tenbu(group of protectors of buddhist laws)in buddhism.
along with kishimojin(goddess of children),jurasetsunyo are goho zenjin(good deities protecting dharma)in hoke-kyo sutra(the lotus sutra).
summary
jurasetsunyo are ten demonesses that appear in daranihon of hoke-kyo sutra.
these ten rasetsunyo are said to have honji-suijaku(original reality and manifested traces)and there are several theories;in this article,a theory found in "myoho renge sanmai samaya himitsu samaya kyo" is described as an example.
ramba(lamba)
translated as uketsubaku(one who has bundles).
it is named as such because it shackles living beings and murders them.
its original reality is jogyo bosatsu(superior practice bodhisattva).
biramba(vilamba)
translated as riketsu(free from bonds).
it is named as such because it tries to be free from unified living beings.
the moon is full as ryuo(dragon king)and like heading for the ocean.
it has wind and cloud in the right hand and nenju(rosary)in the left.
its clothes and food are碧録
its face is pale,standing in front of the mirror.
its original reality is muhengyo bosatsu(limitless practice bodhisattva).
kokushi(kutadanti)or crooked teeth
translated as seshaku(one who donates piles).
it is named as such because it has a threatening look with crooked teeth.
its original reality is jogyo bosatsu(pure practice bodhisattva).
keshi(pushpadanti)or flowery teeth
it is named as such because it has perfect teeth.
its original reality is anryugyo bosatsu.
kokushi(makutadanti)or black teeth
it is named as such because it has a threatening look with black teeth.
its original reality is shaka nyorai(shakyamuni).
tahotsu(keshini)or much hair
it is named as such because it has a thick head of hair.
its original reality is fugen bosatsu.
muenzoku(achala)or insatiable
it is named as such because it couldn't care less about killing living beings or ever being satisfied.
its original reality is monjushuri bosatsu.
jiyoraku(maladhari)or necklace bearer
it is named as such because it has a necklace in its hand.
its original reality is kanzeon bosatsu(the buddhist goddess of mercy).
kodai(kunti)
translated as kasho.
it is named as such because it can come and go between heaven and the human world.
in hokke jurasetsunyo ho,it sits with its knees up and has mo(long pleated skirts)in the right hand and tokko(a religious tool like a short stick)in the left.
its original reality is miroku bosatsu(maitreya bodhisattva).
datsu issaishujo shoke(sarvasattvojohari)or robber of the vital spirit of all living beings
it is called as such because it takes the vital spirit of all living beings.
its original reality is taho nyorai(buddha of many treasures).
in the lotus sutra,buddha told a story of hokekyo that made these demonesses realize that they could attain buddhahood,and they swore to protect those who possess and hand down the hokekyo.
regarding to the names and the numbers of jurasetsunyo,there are other jurasetsunyo with different names.
there are also eight and twelve rasetsunyo or seventy-two rasetsunyo in kujaku kyo(sutra).
it should be noted,however,that the source of the names of rasetsunyo in hokekyo prior to hokekyo daranihon is unknown and it is the subject of study.
according to yutaka iwamoto who translated sanskrit texts of hokekyo into japanese,lamba appears as rakusasi or yaksni in other buddhist scriptures,indicating that the names of jurasetsunyo are only listed at random and thus they are not significant in the cultural history.
