bussharito
bussharito is a buddhist pagoda that allegedly contains busshari(remains of shakamuni-butsu).
generally,bussharito is a buddhist structure modeled after 'stupa' in india,which is the original form of buddhist pagodas.
it has a sorin(metal pinnacle)on a domy structure.
in japan,many were built in modern times.
there are also bussharito that enshrine spirits of the war dead in the pacific war,as well as original bussharito that enshrine busshari.
china
in the people's republic of china, 'bussharito' is called 'fukubachishiki(inverted bowl style)pagoda.'
they are pagodas of tibetan buddhism.
the structure of fukubachishiki pagoda is basically the same as that of stupa,and fukubachishiki architecture was already seen in unko grottoes(yungang grottoes)in the period of the northern and southern dynasties.
it came to tibet in early times and spread from tibet to many areas.
stupa eventually changed its shape to hoto(treasure pagoda)in the people's republic of china.
however,in the yuan dynasty period,tibetan buddhism became popular and indian stupa flowed back into the people's republic of china.
then,they were also built in areas where the han race live.
fukubachishiki pagoda is used for worship.
it contains shari(buddha's relics)inside and it is also used as a grave for the high priest.
fukubachishiki pagodas are not hollow.
there are various sizes.
the biggest fukubachishiki pagoda that exists in the people's republic of china is the white stupa in miaoying temple(white stupa temple)in beijing city that was built in the yuan dynasty period.
other than this,there are white stupa in yoan-ji temple in beihai park,etc.
japan
in ancient japan,many bussharito were built as wooden five-storied pagodas or three-storied pagodas such as hoko-ji temple,horyu-ji temple,and shitenno-ji temple in the asuka period,but in recent times,bussharito were built for peace in the post war period etc.such as shiroyama in kushiro city,hokkaido,heiwa park in gotenba city,shizuoka prefecture,and mt.hachibuse in takaoka city,toyama prefecture,etc.
list of bussharito
people's republic of china
miafengshan stone stupa in beijing city
baita'an stupa in beijing city
xiantong si white stupa in wutaishan
円照寺ラマstupa in wutaishan
xilituzhaoラマin hohhot
延寿寺stupa in liaoning
linzhou恵明寺in henan province
stupa of sam ye temple in tibet autonomous region
japan
mt.moiwa(sapporo city,hokkaido)
shiroyama(kushiro city,hokkaido)
yomiuri land(kawasaki city,kanagawa prefecture)
mt.akiba(niigata city,niigata prefecture)
mt.hachibuse(takaoka city,toyama prefecture)
heiwa park(gotenba city,shizuoka prefecture)
nishikigaura(atami city,shizuoka prefecture)
osaka bussharito(neyagawa city,osaka prefecture)
nagoyama reien bussharito(himeji city,hyogo prefecture)
futabayama heiwa to(hiroshima city,hiroshima prefecture)
mt.hanaoka(kumamoto city,kumamoto prefecture)
