nisshin
nisshin(1407-october 30,1488)was a priest of the nichiren sect in the muromachi period.
his father was shigetsugu haniya.
he is believed to have been the first advocate of 'fuju-fuse-gi' (nothing could be received or given).
biography
he was born in shimosa province.
he learned from the younger biological brother of his father,nichiei(nakayamamon school),at myosen-ji temple,and entered nakayama hokekyo-ji temple.
he went to the capital in 1427,and conducted missionary work in various places including kamakura and kyoto.
he went to hizen province in 1433.
he revisited the capital in the same year to found honpo-ji temple(kyoto city).
nisshin,who made various temples convert to the nichiren sect,advocated almsgiving of other sects when he had the opportunity to preach to the sixth shogun,yoshinori ashikaga,and as a result,he was forbidden to propose to the government.
he broke the ban and was incarcerated;honmyo-ji temple was destroyed.
he was nicknamed 'pan-wearing shonin' and 'pan-wearing nisshin' based on the legend that he was tortured by a burning pan being placed on his head but he did not stop preaching
he was released after yoshinori was killed in the kakitsu war in 1441 and was incarcerated again when he was ordered to come to kyoto by the eighth shogun,yoshimasa ashikaga.
honmyo-ji temple was rebuilt with support from a machi-shu(merchant class)named kiyonobu honami in 1463.
he died in 1488,at age 82.
nisshin and fujufuse-gi
nichiren's pure worship of hoke-kyo(lotus sutra)gradually changed as the wars continued during the period of the northern and southern courts(japan)and other sects expanded their influence during the muromachi period;he compromised with other sects and did not hesitate to receive charity from believers of other sects.
in particular,nakayamamon school represented by nakayama hokekyo-ji temple was believed to be relatively tolerant of other sects from the beginning.
according to the records,rissho ankoku ron(the treatise for spreading peace throughout the country by establishing the true teaching),which was the temple's treasure,had been lent out to kamakura fuon-ji temple(no longer exists)of the ritsu sect to transcribe in 1336.
amid the situation,nisshin advocated fujufuse-gi.
nisshin's activities
nisshin began street preaching at ichijo modori-bashi bridge in kyoto(1427),however,other sects,including enryaku-ji temple on mt.hiei and the rinzai sect,embraced by the shogunate family severely oppressed his activities.
to save the chaotic society by hoke-kyo,nisshin wrote 'rissho jikoku ron' (the treatise on establishing the true teaching and governing the country)in an attempt to convert the ashikaga shogunate family to the nichiren sect(during this era,restless days continued as the peasants' uprising of the shocho era and the rebellion of the gonancho(second southern court)force occurred)and was incarcerated for the attempted direct appeal(1440).
he was tortured;his head was covered with a red-hot pan.
according to the legend,the pan never left his head for the rest of his life.
literary works
"shakubuku-seigi-sho" (abridgment of teaching of shakubuku(a method of propagating buddhism which was practiced by nichiren daishonin))
"rissho jikoku ron"
