taikoan
taikoan is tatchu(sub-temple on the site of the main temple)of tofuku-ji temple,which is the daihonzan(head temple of a buddhist sect)of the rinzai sect,tofuku-ji temple school,located in higashiyama ward,kyoto city.
the honzon(principal image of buddha)is senju kannon(thousand-armed avalokiteshwara).
it is known that the temple has a connection with ono no komachi.
a reservation must be made beforehand in order to visit the temple and pray.
history
it was built in 1346 by the forty-third shokai reiken of tofuku-ji temple.
the temple was declining in power due to the onin war,but it was restored over the years between 1596 and 1615 by ekei ankokuji.
when the battle of toba-fushimi occurred at the end of edo period,since the choshu domain had its base at tofuku-ji temple,taikoan became an ancestral temple of solders who died in the battle.
the precincts of a shrine
kyakuden(guest hall)(cultural property designated by kyoto prefecture)
jizo-do hall:a jizo bosatsu zazo(seated statue of jizo bosatsu)such as tamazusa jizo is enshrined,as well as a hundred-year-old statue of ono no komachi.
tamazusa jizo was moved from komachi dera,which was at shibutanigoe in higashiyama ward,kyoto city in 1875,and it is said that it carries a love letter addressed to ono no komachi.
sakumu-ken tea ceremony room,a four-and-a-half-mat japanese space,is said to be the place where mitsunari ishida and hideie ukita conspired to the battle of sekigahara after hideyoshi toyotomi died.
there is a fuse zamurai no ma room,which is said to be the area in which the samurai guard would wait.
the north garden is a chisen kanshoshiki teien garden(literally,pond appreciation style garden),and the south garden is a dry landscape garden famous for hair moss.
the cultural property
important cultural property
a colored image of shokai osho on silk canvas(including his own work)
紙本墨書永明智覚寿禅師垂誡2幅(entrusted to tokyo national museum)
紙本墨書聖一国師忌斎幹縁疏
access
walk from tofukuji station of the keihan main line or the jr nara line.
