fujufuse nichiren komon sect
fujufuse(not receive and not give)nichiren komon sect is a school of the nichiren sect for which the sect founder was nichiren and the school founder was nichio.
sect founder
nichiren
school founder
nichio
nikko
head temple
honkaku-ji temple(okayama city)(okayama prefecture)
summary
fujufuse school of nichiren sect,which tried to observe nichiren sect's doctrine of fujufuse,was oppressed severely by bakufu(japanese feudal government headed by a shogun)through the ban of terauke(to register with a temple in order to prove their buddhist faith)by fujufuse school and the illegalization of the religious order itself.
under such circumstances,the religious order tried to survive by organizing an underground organization consisting of hocchu(buddhist priest),horyu(法立,believers of fujufuse)and naishin(内信,believers who ostensibly pretended to believe in other sects or schools).
in 1682,however,disputes arose inside the religious order in the okayama region concerning whether naishin,who ostensibly pretended to be believers of other sects or schools,could be treated equally with pure believers of fujufuse as well as whether horyu could officiate,instead of hocchu,as doshi(lead chanter)in kangyo sutra(the sutra of visualization of the buddha of measureless life)for the sake of naishin.
while this internal conflict was spreading from okayama to the entire fujufuse school,a group headed by nikko,who was in exile in sadohara in hyuga,and nichiryu at tsudera-an temple of kurashiki in bizen insisted that naishin people who were spending a calm and stable life,and the believers of fujufuse who were keeping faith without terauke,even becoming homeless,should be clearly distinguished and horyu should not be allowed to act as doshi.
this group was called the tsudera school(fudoshi school)and it has become the fujufuse nichiren komon sect of which head temple is honkaku-ji temple.
on the other hand,a group headed by nichigyo,who was in exile in sanuki,and nitsu at hisashi-an of kurashiki in bizen referred to nikko who was in exile in sadohara and refuted by saying 'although he is in exile,nikko is spending a peaceful life without worrying about assassination and he cannot understand the feelings of naishin people who are keeping faith while constantly worrying about their lives' (jokoki(writings about removing nikko)).
this group was called the hisashi school(doshi school)and it has become the fujufuse school of nichiren sect of which the head temple is myokaku-ji temple(okayama).
history
in 1378,nichijitsu constructed myokaku-ji temple(kyoto city)(kyoto prefecture).
in 1595,nichio of myokaku-ji temple(kyoto city)(kyoto prefecture)refused to attend senso kuyoe(ceremony of thousand priest mass)hosted by hideyoshi toyotomi while asserting fujufuse,and was oppressed.
in 1599,ieyasu tokugawa ordered nichio,who was a monk of myokaku-ji temple(kyoto city)(kyoto prefecture)and represented fujufuse school,and nichiju,who was a monk of honman-ji temple(kyoto prefecture)and represented jufuse(receive but not give)school,to hold a debate at osaka-jo castle(osaka tairon(debate in osaka))and nichio was banished.
in 1630,the tokugawa shogunate ordered the holding of a debate at edo-jo cattle(miike tairon(debate between ikegami school and minobu school))between monks belonging to fujufuse school,nichiju of ikegami hinmon-ji temple(tokyo),nikken of hokkekyo-ji temple(chiba prefecture),nikko of hondo-ji temple(chiba prefecture),nichiryo of konishi danrin(a school annexed to a temple)(chiba prefecture),nisshin of enyu-ji temple(meguro-ku ward,tokyo)(tokyo)and nichiju of nakamura danrin(chiba prefecture),and those belonging to jufuse school,nikkan of kuon-ji temple(yamanashi prefecture),nichien of kuon-ji temple(yamanashi prefecture),nissen of kuon-ji temple(yamanashi prefecture),nitto of myoko-ji temple(chiba prefecture),nichijun of myohokke-ji temple(shizuoka prefecture)and niccho of renei-ji temple(shizuoka prefecture),and nichiju,nikken,nikko,nichiryo,nisshin and nichiju were banished.
in 1666,the tokugawa shogunate issued tsuchimizu kuyo rei(土水供養令,the act for kuyo(buddhist memorial service)based on the thought that temple estates are regarded as kuyo of shogunate)and based on it,nikko of noro danrin(chiba prefecture)was accused of teaching fujufuse-gi(teachings of fujufuse)and was banished.
in 1669,the tokugawa shogunate banned terauke by the fujufuse school and since then,the school was oppressed for a long time.
in 1871,the meiji government abolished the terauke system and the ban was removed.
in 1882,the meiji government permitted the restoration of fujufuse nichiren komon sect.
in 1941,myokaku-ji temple(okayama city)(okayama prefecture)of the fujufuse school of nichiren sect and honkaku-ji temple(okayama city)(okayama prefecture)of the fujufuse nichiren komon sect merged together and officially named itself honge seishu sect.
in 1946,honge seishu sect was split into two schools and each of them became independent.
