ok
chosei was a "busshi" (a sculptor of buddhist statues)in the middle of the heian period,whose birth year was 1010(birth date unknown)and death date was december 27,1091.
he was the founder of "enpa" (en school).
and he was a pupil of jocho.
chosei gained "hoin" (the highest rank of buddhist priests),the first of all busshi to do so.
chosei is said to have been a pupil of jocho at first.
according to "koryu-ji raiyu-ki" (the book on the history of koryu-ji temple),his first achievement as busshi was the making of "nikko and gakko bosatsu ritsuzo" (the standing statues of the bodhisattva of sunlight and the bodhisattva of moonlight,now designated as important cultural assets)and "junishinsho ritsuzo" (the standing statues of twelve heavenly generals,now designated as a national treasure),all of which were crafted in 1064 and were enshrined in koryu-ji temple.
also,chosei took part in the restoration of hojo-ji temple,which burned down in 1058,and in 1065 he was conferred the priesthood in reward for the making of statues enshrined in its "kondo" (main hall).
in 1070,he took charge of making statues enshrined in enso-ji temple's kondo.
on this occasion,he crafted a group of gigantic statues-nine statues in all-in about two months(from november of the year to january of the next year);the statues were "birushanabutsu" (birushana buddha)of about 6.06 meter height, "yakushi nyorai" (healing buddha)of about 4.85 meter height, "ichiji kinrin buccho" (the principal buddha of the 'court of the perfected')of about 4.85 meter height, "bonten" (brahma,a major hindu deity thought to be responsible for creating the world), "taishakuten" (commander of four heavenly kings),and "shitenno" (four heavenly kings).
in reward for this achievement,he was conferred "hogan" (the second highest rank of buddhist priests)along with the "daibusshi" (master sculptor)kakunyo,who took charge of making statues enshrined in enso-ji temple's "kodo" (auditorium).
chosei's most famous achievement was the making of statues enshrined in hosho-ji temple.
first,he crafted the statues enshrined in its kodo and "amida-do hall" (a hall in which amitabha tathagata is enshrined),for which he was rewarded hoin in 1077,and second,he crafted the nine statues of amitabha tathagata enshrined in its "jogyo-do hall" in 1085.
on december 21,1091,he died at the age of 82.
his works
in koryu-ji temple
nikko and gakko bosatsu ritsuzo
junishinsho ritsuzo
