shingon sect yamashina school
the shingon sect yamashina school is a buddhist school of the shingon lineage in japan,classified into the kogi(old)shinshu sect.
the daihonzan(head temple of a buddhist sect)is the kashu-ji temple.
the founder of a religious sect is kobo-daishi kukai.
shumon(crest of a sect)
ura yaegiku(chrysanthemum)
jikaku(the status of the temple)(random order)
the daihonzan kashu-ji temple(higashiyama ward,kyoto city)
bekkaku-honzan(special head temple)denpuku-ji temple(wakayama city)
jun-bekkaku-honzan(associate head temple)
the branch temples
church
history
the history of shingon sect yamashina school began from the foundation of the kanshu-ji temple.
the kanshu-ji temple was built based on a residence of the miyaji clan,a maternal relative of the emperor daigo by a vow to attain enlightenment of fujiwara no inshi who was his mother,and its first chief priest was shoshun.
in 905 it was selected as a jogaku-ji temple(one of the temples next to national temples in rank)and nenbundo-sha were allowed(approved people who enter the buddhist priesthood),and was known as dojo(place of buddhist practice or meditation)of the shingon and the sanron sects.
in 918 saiko was assigned to the first chori(a chief priest and a common name of monseki or monzeki,the head priest who was born as imperial family)of the kashu-ji temple,which led to its prosperity.
it was guarded by the imperial family and produced distinguished priests who knew well about the practical training of the shinshu sect.
kanshin,the seventh head priest of the kanshu-ji temple,began the kajuji-ryu(the kanjuji line)based on the kanshu-ji temple.
after the cloistered imperial prince kanin,the seventh prince of the emperor gofushimi,entered the kanshu-ji temple and was assigned to the fifteenth chori(monzeki)during the end of the kamakura period,imperial princes were assigned to the successive chori and given the title of miya-monzeki(head priest born of the imperial family).
the cloistered imperial prince saihan,the thirty-second head priest,(yamashina no miya imperial prince akira later returned to a secular life)was the last miya-monzeki.
in 1470 during the muromachi period,the temple was destroyed by fire in a battle,but it was restored.
however,since it rejected the order of hideyoshi toyotomi,its jiryo(temple estate)was diminished to 300 goku(crop yields)and furthermore,the mountain was destroyed,some buildings were moved and himuro-ike pond was reclaimed in order to built a new road inside of its precincts for the erection of fushimi-jo castle.
in the kanei era during the edo period,it was given a building of gosho(imperial palace)from the imperial court,and it began to actively rebuild the temple buildings after that.
in 1682 the imperial prince saishin,the first prince of emperor reigen,was assigned to the twenty-ninth monzeki and jiryo was increased to 1,012 goku,which strengthened its economic foundation.
in 1879 during the meiji period,it was subordinated to the to-ji temple and selected as a jogaku-ji temple.
in 1986 it was elected as a candidate temple for choja(chief abbot of the temple)and became the head temple for practical training.
in 1901 it joined the union of four of the kogi schools of the shingon sect with the to-ji temple,but it gained independence in 1907 and identified itself as the yamashina school of the shingon sect.
during world war ii,the kogi,shingi both schools of the shingon sect were integrated into the daishingon sect by according to the religious policy of the japanese government,but it gained independence as the present yamashina school of the shingon sect in 1952.
school organization
the chief abbot(monzeki of the kanshu-ji temple assumes.)
a temple office(in the kanshu-ji temple)
the school assembly(consisting of seven elective assembly members and four specially appointed members(11 in total)who have four year terms)
the session(held in the end of the fiscal year)
local school organization(a temple office put in charge)
sokai(ranks of priest)and priesthood
sokai(15 ranks)
1st rank daisojo(the highest priest)
2nd rank gon-daisojo(deputy daisojo)
3rd rank chu sojo(middle ranked sojo)
4th rank gon-chusojo(deputy middle ranked sojo)
5th rank sho-sojo(junior sojo)
6th rank gon-sho-sojo(deputy junior sojo)
7th rank dai-sozu(major prelate)
8th rank gon dai-sozu(deputy prelate)
9th rank chu-sozu(middle ranked sozu)
10th rank gon chu-sozu(deputy middle ranked sozu)
11th rank sho-sozu(junior sozu)
12th rank gon-sho-sozu(deputy junior sozu)
13th rank dai-risshi(major discipliner)
14th rank risshi(discipliner)
15th rank gon-risshi(deputy discipliner)
gon-daisozu(graduates of shuchiin university)
jushoku(a chief priest of a temple who was given tokudo upon entering the buddhist priesthood)and official certificate,and entered denpo-kanjo(the consecration for the transmission of the dharma)after shidokegyo(four trainings)and practiced rengyo(a kind of training).)
annual events
january 1,shushoe(new year's service)
february,setsubun-e(meeting of the traditional end of winter)
march,mieku(memorial service for kobo-daishi)and higane(meeting of equinoctial week)
june,shuso kobodaishi gotane(a ceremony for the birthday of the kobodaishi,the founder of the sect)
august,urabon-e festival(a festival of the dead or buddhist all soul's day,around the 15th of july or august,depending on local customs)
educational institutions
the research institute of practical training at kanshu-ji temple
kanzangakuin
shuchiin university(co-management)
rakunan high school and junior high school attached to rakunan high school(co-management)
facilities
kanzangakuin yamashina bunko
the training center for disabled people in the kinki region
the creed
it adopts the creed of the kogi shingon sect.
