seishi bosatsu
seishi bosatsu,bon name:mahaasthaamapraapta,is a bosatsu in buddhism.
it is sometimes written as daiseishi bosatsu or tokudaiseishi bosatsu.
the sanmayagyo symbol is mibu renge(lotus bud).
shushi(mikkyo(esoteric buddhism))(shuji)is saku(sah).
the kyoji(statues that accompany a central buddha figure)to the right of amida sanzon govern the chimon of buddha and inspires bodaishin(a desire to attain enlightenment and save others)in people.
this bosatsu saves people from falling into hell and the world of hungry spirits by holding the light of wisdom to lighten all things.
currently,it is known in japan as the guardian honzon of the year of the horse.
the reason why it is thought to be called daiseishi is that it can successfully 'reach' the point where many things can be 'daisei' or saved.
in japan,it is very rare for seishi bosatsu to be the sole target of religious attention,and is usually found as an attendant figure of amida sanzon.
whereas kannon bosatsu have an artificial buddha on the front of the diadem,seishi bosatsu customarily have a water jug.
in the raigo(literally, "welcoming")style of amida sanzon,in which the buddha is believed to descend to earth to welcome a believer facing death,the kannon bosatsu holds a lotus-shaped pedestal,whereas seishi bosatsu is expressed as having his palms held together in prayer.
from the medieval period,there has been a theory that honen was an incarnation of seishi bosatsu.
honen was called seishi-maru when he was a child,and was full of knowledge and will during his lifetime,being called 'honen-bo,no.1 for knowledge and will.'
after honen's death,his disciple shinran wrote 'daiseishi bosatsu wasan' and said 'daiseishi bosatsu is genku shonin(honen)'s honji(substance)' in the end.
eshin-ni shosoku' has a story where shinran's wife,eshin-ni has a mystical dream where she sees 'a bright buddha full of light' and hears a voice saying 'that is seishi bosatsu,in other words,honen.'
in chion-in temple kyoto,seishi-do was established to install seishi bosatsu as the honzon.
this is considered honen's honji.
this figure is joining his palms in the same style as seishi bosatsu as attendant in raigo style amida sanzon
in the medieval period,many copies of the zenko-ji-nyorai(zenko-ji-shiki amida sanzon)in nagano were made and the two bosatsu,kannon and seishi,are shown with hands on top of each other and placed in front of their chest.
