jogyo
jogyo(also known as teigyo,march 25,1186-april 3,1231)was a monk living from the end of the heian period to the beginning of the kamakura period.
he was the third son(out of wedlock)of minamoto no yoritomo.
his mother was daishin no tsubone,a daughter of the hitachi-nyudo monk nensai(also called by the names fujiwara no tokinaga and tomomune date),the founder of the date family.
he was himself also known as kamakura hoin(the highest rank in the hierarchy of buddhist priests).
biography
his mother,daishin no tsubone,was a lady's maid serving the kamakura bakufu(japanese feudal government headed by a shogun),who was favored by yoritomo and became pregnant.
as masako hojo,the lawful wife of yoritomo,noticed her pregnancy,daishin no tsubone was kept at a distance by yoritomo who feared masako's anger,and she bore a baby boy at the residence of kageto nagato,one of his retainers.
the child's birth ceremony was not performed for fear of arousing masako's envy,and kageto retired to the vicinity of fukazawa after running away with his children,because he had been cut off by masako after she discovered that he had harbored daishin no tsubone.
he was in such a pitiful condition as no one would agree to become his wet nurse for fear of masako,therefore his mother raised him away from the public eye.
he went to kyoto to become a priest at the age of seven on july 7,1192.
yoritomo secretly visited his son on the evening he was due to depart in order to pass him a sword.
he changed his homyo(a name given to a person who enters the buddhist priesthood)from 'nokan,' which he used soon after he became a priest at ninna-ji temple,to jogyo(also referred as teigyo)after practicing asceticism further,keeping himself away from the world of everyday affairs by climbing mt.koya to confine himself for religious training.
while the members of the minamoto clan were killed one after another amid a struggle for supremacy,he devoted himself to religious practice completely isolated from the general world,and as a result he earned respect from many people.
later,masako finally became one of jogyo's believers,and asked him to pray to buddha for the happiness of the dead in the minamoto clan,providing him with aid and money.
accordingly,establishing an amida-do hall(temple hall having an enshrined image of amitabha)called joroku-do in kyochi-bo,mt.koya,jogyo put the hair of his departed father yoritomo into the sitting statue of amitabha which was enshrined in the hall for the repose of his soul,and furthermore,he held a religious service for the repose of the soul of the third shogun minamoto no sanetomo,a half younger brother with the same father,by erecting a gorinto(gravestone composed of five pieces set one upon another).
according to one story,when masako approached him about his ambition to become the fourth shogun,suspecting him of having evil intentions regarding the succession after the death of sanetomo,he proved his innocence by taking out one of his eyeballs and thoroughly rejecting her offer.
it is said that masako,who shed tears at the display of honesty,never suspected him again.
he died on mt.koya at the age of 46 in 1231,one theory suggesting that he killed himself.
his death resulted in the extinction of the male line of minamoto no yoritomo(with the death of take no gosho three years later,the female line was also extinguished).
although jogyo and nokan are treated as different people in "sonpi bunmyaku" (bloodlines of noble and base),this is mistaken.
