nyoirin kannon
nyoirin kannon,cintaamanicakra in sanskrit,is a venerable entity of bosatsu,bodhisattva,and is worshipped in buddhism.
it is a transformed figure of kannon bosatsu and one of the roku kannon(six kannon).
sanma yagyo(characteristic things of the buddha)is nyoi hoju(a sacred jewel,said to remove suffering,and capable of granting every wish)and a red lotus flower.
shushi(or shuji(the characteristic one syllable word to depict the bodhisattva))(esoteric buddhism)is hriih.
summary
in japan it has various names such as 'nyoirin kannon bosatsu,' 'nyoirin kanzeon bosatsu' and 'daibonjinon kannon,' and the designated name,such as for an important cultural property,was 'nyoirin kannon.'
it is also called 'kuse(or guse)bosatsu.'
nyoi is an abbreviation of nyoi hoju,a wish-fulfilling jewel(cintamani),and rin is an abbreviation of horin,dharma-wheel(cakra)and its true wish is to preach at will,living in zanmai(samadhi)of nyoi hoju,removing the troubles of living things in rokudo(six posthumous worlds)and provides benefits to these worlds.
nyoi hoju fulfills all hopes and horin is a buddhist symbol to destroy bonno(earthly desires),and which was transformed from chakuram,a weapon in ancient india originally.
as the role of roku kannon,it is said to be sekke(edification)tenbu(deities who reside in a heavenly realm,one of six realms in which the souls of living beings transmigrate from one to another).
features of statue
all nyoin kannon statues are basically seated statues or hanka(half-lotus posture)statues so that standing statues are not seen.
many statues have six arms,and are sitting with one knee up,but there are also hanka statues with two arms,which have totally different figures from the former.
the statues with six arms have nyoi hoju and horin,which are origins of its name,in two of the six hands.
among the works of nyoirin kannon in japan,the principal image of buddha at kanshin-ji temple in osaka prefecture is a representative statue with six arms.
among six hands,its first right hand shows shiyui-so,meditative posture,with its chin resting upon its hand,and it has nyoi hoju in the second right hand in front of its breast and beadroll in the third right hand hanging to the outside.
on the other hand,the first left hand touches the earth,spreading the palm,the second left hand supports mikaifu renge,unopened lotus and the third left hand supports horin at its finger tips.
the statue at kanno-ji temple in hyogo prefecture,the principal image of buddha at kannon-do in onjo-ji temple(mii-dera temple),the statue in the main hall of muro-ji temple in nara prefecture and the statue at daigo-ji temple in kyoto prefecture are statues with six arms and are the same as the statue at kanshin-ji temple.
the statue at ishiyama-dera temple in shiga,which is a buddhist image not usually shown to the public,has been famous as the nyoirin kannon statue with two arms since ancient times.
the principal image of buddha of oka-dera temple in asuka is also a statue with two arms.
the principal image of chugu-ji temple,next to horyu-ji temple,is a typical hanka shiyui-zo,a position with the left leg pendent(hanka),the right leg crossed over the left knee,and the fingers of the right hand lightly touching the cheek(shiyui).
this statue has been called a nyoirin kannon statue since ancient times,but the name at the time of being shaped is not clear so that it is highly possible that it was made as a statue of miroku bosatsu,maitreya bodhisattva.
in addition,it was worshipped at jukuya-ko(the women gather on the 19th of the month to pray for easy delivery and family health and safety on nineteenth night of the lunar calendar)in recent times.
mantra,shingon
on barada handomei un
on handoma shinda mani jinba ra sowaka
mantra of light:on abokya beiroshano makabodara daramani handoma jinbara harabaritaya un
