raigo-in temple(sakyo ward,kyoto city)
raigo-in temple,located in sakyo ward,kyoto city,is a temple of the tendai sect.
its sango(literally, "mountain name"),which is the title prefixed to the name of a buddhist temple,is gyozan.
its honzon(the principal image of buddha)is yakushi nyorai(the healing buddha).
history
the temple is reported to have originated in the training hall of tendai shomyo(buddhist liturgical chant)built by ennin during the early heian period.
the temple was restored by ryonin,who entered it in 1109 and was regarded as the founder of yuzu nenbutsu(reciting of the name of amida buddha).
after repeated destruction by fire followed by reconstruction,the current temple comprises the reconstruction of the period from 1532 through 1555.
in the edo period,it was awarded shuinjo(shogunate license to conduct trade).
cultural properties
national treasures
dengyo-daishi doenan narabini sogocho(three letters on saicho entering the priesthood and his vow to follow the precepts)
this is a highly valuable biographical document on saicho(dengyo daishi),which is a scroll comprised of three writings concerning his tokudo(entering the buddhist priesthood)and jukai(receiving the religious precepts).
it's held at the tokyo national museum.
the second and third volumes of the book,nihon ryoiki(miraculous stories from the japanese buddhist tradition),written in the early heian period
these are precious documents for the history of japanese literature,as the oldest existing manuscripts of the second and third volumes of the nihon ryoiki,which was written in the late heian period.
it is deposited with the kyoto national museum.
important cultural properties
wooden seated statues of yakushi nyorai(healing buddha),amida nyorai(amitabha)and shaka nyorai(shakyamuni,)all of which are enshrined in the main hall of the temple
raigo-in nyorai-zo shogyo monjo-rui:shogyo(buddhist sutra)and other writings,introduced to nyorai-zo(kyozo)(sutra repository)of raigo-in temple,including books written in ryonin's own hand.
three-story stone pagoda(regarded as ryonin's tomb)
location
537 ohara raikoin-cho,sakyo ward,kyoto city,kyoto prefecture
a walk of approximately 15 minutes from the ohara bus stop of kyoto bus
