togan ean
togan ean(1225-december 6,1277)was a priest of the rinzai sect of buddhism in the mid kamakura period.
his imina(personal name)was ean.
his dogo(a pseudonym as a priest)was togan.
his shigo(a posthumous name)was kokaku zenshi(宏覚禅師).
he was from harima province.
after he first received religious precepts as a priest and learnt tendai doctrine at mt.shosha,he studied the same at sennyu-ji temple,too and went to hakata to visit the sung dynasty in china in 1257,but he met goku kyonen and was inspired by him,and he converted to the rinzai sect.
he left for kamakura following goku and underwent training at jufuku-ji temple.
he returned to kyoto with goku and then went to kamakura to practice zen mediation under gottan funei at kencho-ji temple.
later he lived in yoshida and nakayama in kyoto,and when gottan was leaving for his country,he sent him off at toba and received a priest's robe,chinzo(the portrait of a zen monk)and goroku(sayings).
he opened shoden-ji temple in ichijo imadegawa,kyoto in 1268 with the support of joshin(静心)of shogoin temple's steward and underwent a prayer in the event of mongol invasion attempts against japan.
mt.hiei's armed warrior priests held grudges and destroyed shoden-ji temple,and he went to kamakura and constructed shokai-ji temple(聖海寺)in wagae,kamakura,embraced from yasumori adachi as a chief retainer of the bakufu(japanese feudal government headed by a shogun)who was introduced by daikyu shonen of jufuku-ji temple.
yukyu-no-mai dance
a waka poem(s:no.37 of aikoku hyakunin isshu(one hundred patriotic poems by one hundred poets))was made by kokaku zenshi around the time mongol invasion attempts against japan took place and was converted to yukyu-no-mai dance as o no tadatomo added music and dance to the waka poem in 1940 using the kuniburi no utamai(japanese traditional dance executed in the ceremonies of the court)method.
initially,the dance was otoko-mai(a male dance),but was remade to onna-mai(a female dance)in 1964.
about the lyrics,please see the article of s:kagura,(sacred music and dancing performed at shrine)made in the modern age.
