shin-puh-kan
shin-puh-kan is a complex commercial facility located at 586-2,bano-cho,aneyakoji-dori sagaru,karasuma-dori,nakagyo-ku ward,kyoto city.
its three storey building of gallery-type structure that houses about thirty shops,such as clothing stores,gourmet restaurants,and interior equipment stores.
it is operated by the ntt urban development co.and the newly established shin-puh-syatyu company.
summary of the facilities
its original western-style ferroconcrete building used to be the former kyoto central telephone office,which was designed by tetsuro yoshida,an architect of the ministry of communications building and repairs section,constructed by shimizu gumi(now shimizu corporation),completed in 1926,and extended in 1931.
it was initially used as a telephone operation center,and later,was turned into the west hall of kyoto telegraph and telephone building of nippon telegraph and telephone public corporation,nippon telegraph and telephone corporation,and then the nippon telegraph and telephone west corporation.
it was the first registered as tangible cultural property by kyoto city(registered june 1,1983).
it's renovation into a commercial facility 'shin-puh-kan' was led by the ntt urban development co.,the project owner,designed by ntt facilities and richard rogers partnership japan,carried out by shimizu corporation,and completed to open on january 26,2001.
it features its brick looking exterior and a retro-flavored structure with a european style patio,and won the good design award 2004 in the domain of architecture and environment design,and the twelfth belca award in best reform domain(belca:building and equipment life cycle association).
it also plays a role as a vogue initiator:it provides a base of velotaxi operated by an npo in the city center;it lets entrepreneurs set up stall-type shops supported by a grant from kyoto city.
leading stores
beams(a clothing store)
diesel(a casual ware shop)
george's(interior furniture and groceries)
abc cooking studio(a culinary school)
tawawa(a restaurant featuring kyoto vegetables)
re-cue hall
its inner courtyard called 're-cue hall' is an open space hall with a capacity for about 1,500 people including standing audience.
equipped with a circular stage,a 250-inch large screen,audio equipment,and permanent cameras,it is used for concerts,fashion shows,and wedding receptions.
opening hours
stores of goods:11:00 to 20:00(until 21:00 on fridays,saturdays,and the days before national holidays)
restaurants:11:00 to 23:00
access
it is five minutes walk from exit 5 of karasuma oike station of kyoto city subway karasuma line or kyoto city subway tozai line.
