shigureden
located in sakyo ward,kyoto city,shigureden is a facility for the promotion and exhibition of the ogura hyakunin isshu(the ogura anthology of 100 poems by 100 poets).
the ogura hyakunin isshu cultural foundation established and operates shigureden,which is close to togetsu-kyo bridge at the foot of mt.ogura where fujiwara no sadaie compiled the anthology.
it was opened on january 27,2006.
it is more of a theme park than a museum about the hyakunin isshu,because doesn't exhibit much of the history of the collection or have an explanation of its card game.
summary of facilities
one can experience the world of the new hyakunin isshu by using hi-tech digital imaging machines and portable consoles.
among them,aerial photographs of both kyoto city and the card game are displayed on 'nintendo floor vision' which consists of 70 full-spec 45-inch high definition liquid crystal display(lcd)panels made by sharp corp.,and arranged on the floor.
there is also a hands-on exhibition of 'taikan karuta goban-shobu' (five games of virtual reality karuta card),with which you can enjoy virtual karuta card games with 'poets' that are displayed on a 65-inch lcd.
hiroshi yamauchi,president of the foundation and executive adviser to nintendo,personally bore the construction costs,and shigeru miyamoto,executive director of nintendo,runs it with technological support from nintendo.
its first floor is for hands-on exhibitions;the second floor exhibits written materials and has a large room for karuta game competitions.
please note that visitors are required to take their shoes off at the entrance,and walk around with socks or stockings on,and without slippers.
the karuta game mentioned earlier uses a touch-panel operated portable console 'shigureden navi' which is made out of a nintendo ds with its buttons removed.
because there are digital communications facilities such as floor vision and wireless transmissions with portable consoles,a notice is posted on the first floor advising "we must decline admission to pacemaker users."
location
11 susukinobaba-cho,tenryuji,saga,ukyo ward,kyoto city,kyoto prefecture
access
approximately 10 minutes on foot from arashiyama station on the keifuku electric railroad
approximately 15 minutes on foot from jr saga arashiyama station,or arashiyama station on the hankyu railway
in the area
tenryu-ji temple
