itabuki no miya palace(an ancient imperial palace where empress kogyoku lived in about the middle of the seventh century)
itabuki no miya was an imperial palace where empress kogyoku lived in about the middle of the seventh century.
it is generally called asuka no itabuki no miya.
it was reportedly located in the asuka-kyo(an ancient capital of asuka)site in oka,asuka village,nara prefecture.
details
in february 642,empress kogyoku ascended the throne succeeding her husband,emperor jomei who had died and on october 20,in the same year,she ordered oomi(a highest officer in national politics of the yamato dynasty)soga no emishi to construct a new palace by december.
a palace was completed as itabuki no miya palace.
she moved into the palace in april 643.
itabuki no miya palace became the setting for a coup(isshi incident[the murder in the year of isshi])which occurred on july 13,645.
on this day,an act of violence to stab to death soga no iruka,the inheritor to the oomi was committed in front of empress kogyoku.
due to this,empress kogyoku abdicated the throne on the 15 of the same month and it was decided that prince karu who was regarded as the real leader of the coups ascend the throne(emperor kotoku).
emperor kotoku set up his palace in naniwa no nagara no toyosaki.
after emperor kotoku died at naniwa no miya in november 654,the retired empress kogyoku ascended the throne again(choso[a second accession to the imperial throne])at itabuki no miya palace early in the following year,becoming empress saimei.
at the end of that year,a fire broke out at itabuki no miya palace,which was burnt down.
empress saimei moved into kawahara no miya palace.
name
furthermore,the name, 'itabuki no miya' (shingle roofed palace)is said to derive from the fact that the palace was actually roofed with shingle(thick and luxurious shingle).
by the above fact,it becomes clear that most of the houses at that time were thatched with grass,kaya-grass or straw and houses with shingle-covered roof were rare.
incidentally,temples at that time were roofed with tiles.
current situation
as of today,what considered to be a part of the center of the palace remains in asuka village,nara prefecture.
in addition,there is kubi-zuka(burial mound for heads)of soga no iruka nearby.
