maizuru wisdom warehouse
maizuru wisdom warehouse,called "maizuru chiegura" in japanese,is a cultural facility in maizuru city,kyoto prefecture.
it features cultural exhibitions and art galleries on the maizuru port waterfront.
it opened in april 2007 as the third red brick warehouse reused by maizuru city authorities.
summary
the cultural facility is housed in a reused red brick warehouse which was originally built as the maizuru naval arsenal bullets and rifles warehouse in 1902.
inside the facility there are galleries which utilize its grand inner walls and a section showing maizuru city's cultural assets.
in restoring this red brick warehouse the outer appearance at the time of its original completion was recreated following the specifications of the blueprints held by the national institute for defense studies of the ministry of defense.
inside the building
there are 7 areas.
exhibition on the red brick warehouse restoration
a freight-car shunting vehicle,a diorama of the country along the restored japan national railways(jnr)naka-maizuru line,and materials connected to the old naka-maizuru line are among many things exhibited here.
there is an explanation about the freight-car shunting vehicle being a jnr diesel locomotive type db10 which was once used in fukuchiyama rail yard.
however,as all the type db10 diesel locomotives were scrapped and none of them currently exist,this explanation cannot be correct.
jomon period canoe exhibition
exhibited here are articles excavated from the uranyu site,including a genuine canoe from the jomon period(a municipally-designated cultural property),said to be the oldest of its kind,dating from about 5,300 years ago.
projects exhibition area
red brick galleries
galleries utilizing the building's inner walls and having a combined total length of 220m
exhibition on ukiyoe(japanese woodblock prints)from the itoi bunko library
dozens of ukiyoe and other prints relating to the tango region are exhibited here,chosen from about 2,200 materials in the itoi bunko library,a municipally-designated cultural property.
historical and cultural exchange area
treasure university(a space for research,meetings,the performance of studies,etc.)
information
days closed
every monday(if monday is a national holiday,the facility is closed the following day instead),also december 29 to january 3
building profile
name of building
the former maizuru naval arsenal bullets and rifles warehouse
completion year
1902
structure and scale
two-story building made of brick and in part wood
approximately 10m tall,10m wide,72m long
building area
789.93sq.m.
total floor area
1521.62sq.m.
address
1039-12 aza kitasui,maizuru city,kyoto prefecture 625-0080
access
15 minutes walk from higashi-maizuru station on the west japan railway company maizuru line
nearby places of interest
red brick warehouses
the maizuru city commemoration hall(to the immediate east)
the world brick museum
maizuru port
yushiodai park
the navy memorial museum
