heian museum of ancient history
the heian museum of ancient history was a museum that once existed japan.
it operated from 1967 to 1988 as a special institution of the paleological association of japan,inc.
it was located in takakura-agaru hishiya-cho,sanjo-dori street,nakagyo ward,kyoto city,kyoto prefecture.
its curator was the historian bunei tsunoda.
the museum was designed by kingo tatsuno and his apprentice,uheiji nagano.
it was originally the building of the kyoto branch of the former bank of japan which was completed in 1906.
as indicated by its english name,it was a museum specializing in ancient history with a focus on the heian period.
the museum was unique in japan for its focus on research.
shokkai(job ranking)system;professor,associate professor,lecturer(education),assistant(education),like the system in a university was applied to the staff members in the museum.
exhibits were displayed in the room 1- 'primordial period',room 2- 'yamashiro prior to the transfer of the capital heian-kyo city',room 3- 'the heian capital',the central hall- 'seiryoden hall' room 4- 'heian literature and life',and room 5- 'lady murasaki'.
in the central hall,a full-size reconstruction of the kokiden imperial apartment at seiryoden hall in the heian imperial palace was exhibited,which was the symbol of the heian museum of ancient history.
the museum's most well-known piece was the oshimabon(aobyoshibon)manuscript(important cultural property)of "tale of genji" which is recognized as the best surviving example.
the museum was closed to cooperate with a new kyoto prefecture museum construction plan,and its land and building were transferred to kyoto prefecture.
kyoto prefecture constructed the museum of kyoto on the site where the heian museum of ancient history once stood.
the paleological association of japan,inc.established the ancient history institute within the museum of kyoto annex(the former main building of the heian museum of ancient history)as a successor institute of heian museum of ancient history.
