kyoto hirogawara ski resort
located in hirogawara obana-cho,sakyo ward,kyoto city,kyoto hirogawara ski resort is the only ski resort in kyoto city.
hirogawara can be reached in about 90 minutes by car from the kyoto urban area,and despite within kyoto city it has heavy snowfall because it is in the tanba uplands.
it was closed during the ski seasons of 2000 to 2002,but it obtained enough investment to resume business in december 2002.
it is considered a good spot because you can enjoy quickly the pleasure of ski on its easy slopes,and it is not famous and so not crowded even on holidays.
many visitors enjoy skiing there after work on weekdays,and on saturdays when it is opens until 23:00 at night.
it closed on march 23,2008 for the season due to the lack of snowfall that winter.
information about its slopes
hirogawara ski resort is a small-scale site consisting of two courses and one lift.
the ski slopes consist of the summit course(its average slope angle is 15 degrees,and is 450 meters in length),and the middle course(13 degrees,250 meters),and it is possible to ski from the summit course through the middle course without a break.
the summit course runs winding down the mountain slope between many trees.
because of this,this course is narrow and has some basin like sections.
compared with the summit course,the middle course is easy to ski because it is wide and straight with a small grade.
snowboarding is allowed on the both courses equipped with skates(スケート)and kickers.
facilities
pair lift
a restaurant
it serves shao mai(steamed meat dumplings)and potsticker soup from a famous shop in kyoto city.
rental rooms
changing rooms
parking
fees
admission fees:1,000 yen for adults,and 500 yen for children(as of february 2008).
lift tickets
all day pass(valid until 5:00 p.m.,after which a night ticket is required):2,500 yen(3,000 yen on holidays and weekends)
night ticket(valid from 5:00 p.m.until closing time):2,500 yen
please check the official web site for discounts on lift tickets and admission fees for certain periods(some are for women only).
access
by public transportation
it takes approximately 110 minutes by kyoto bus hanase route(r32)from demachiyanagi station on the keihan electric railway keihan oto line.
one can also ride this bus from kitaoji station on the kyoto city subway karasuma line,and kurama station on the eizan electric railway kurama line.
please note that the bus makes only four round trips a day;the bus that leaves demachiyanagi station for hirogawara at 17:50 making only a one way trip(as of april 2008).
the last bus for demachiyanagi station leaves hirogawara at 17:00.
by car
the resort lies next to sasaritoge on kyoto hirogawara miyama route on kyoto prefectural road 38,and there are two approach routes:(1)from takao via national routes 162 and 477,and through prefectural road 38;and(2)from kurama on prefectural road 38(part of it on national route 477).
for either route studless tires(winter tires)or snow chains are essential.
