nara prefectural museum of art
nara kenritsu bijutsukan(nara prefectural museum of art)is the museum in nara city,nara prefecture.
it opened in 1973,based on the collections of modern japanese-style paintings,ukiyoe(japanese woodblock prints),art craftworks donated by kanpo yoshikawa,a student of study of folklore history and japanese-style painter.
likewise,later,it collected tetsuji yura's collection such as modern japanese-style paintings or ukiyoe and so on,the collection of kenkichi tomimoto's works,who was an industrial artist and from nara prefecture,the collection of kaichi ohashi,who was the president of ohashi chemical industries ltd.and the collector of gutai(non abstract)art association and japanese post-war modern arts.
at present,the number of the items in the collection is over 4,200.
main collections.
paintings.
maybe by sesshu-shuutou sansui-zu.
shohaku soga-bijin-zu(picture of a beautiful woman)(18 century).
seiho takeuchi-hozu-gawa river(1888).
keiichiro kume-kiyomizu shukeizu(autumn scenery in kiyomizu)(sankeibanki)(1893).
gyo fumon-deer,youth,light and cross(1920).
hoko hamada-the deer on a water's edge(1932).
shoen uemura-spring night(1936).
kokuta suda-todaiji temple in tender green(1968).
koji kinutani-a portrait of mr.cheskini(1986).
ikuo hirayama-the afterglow in changan(1987).
block print and ukiyoe(japanese woodblock prints).
toshusai sharaku-shinobu of yonezaburo matsumoto(1794).
hiroshige utagawa-meisho edo hyakkei(one hundred good scenery in edo),the plum orchard at kameido(1857),lots of fish,and yellow tail and balloon fish.
sukenobu nishikawa-bijin wakashu mitate takasagozu,edo period(18 century).
brushstrokes.
hideyoshi toyotomi-hideyoshi toyotomi's shuinjo(shogunate license to trade)and tsuge sakyonosuke ate(1590).
ceramic art.
kenkichi tomimoto-hakuji hakkaku tsubo(white porcelain octangular pot)(1932),jikiiroeenni hanamoyouookakukazaribako(1941),jikiakajikinginginsaisidamoyoufutatsukikazaribako(1953).
main facilities.
exhibition rooms 1 to 9.
meeting room.
lecture room.
library.
book shop.
break room.
summary of architecture.
design-mitsuo katayama.
completion of construction-1973.
structure and scale-src structure,2 floors above ground and the first basement level.
size of the site-5,780 m2.
architectural area-5,451 m2.
location-noboriojicho 10-6 nara city,nara prefecture,postal code 630.
access.
5 minutes walk from kintetsu nara line,kintetsu nara station.
just near 'kencho-mae' (in front of nara prefectural office building)by a city circular bus.
local circumstances.
nara national museum.
kofuku-ji temple.
todaiji temple.
sarusawa-ike pond.
nara park.
nara kitamachi.
naramachi.
nara women's university.
