izumizaki yokoana cave tumulus(a horizontal decorated cave tumulus in fukushima prefecture)
izumizaki yokoana cave is a horizontal decorated cave tumulus located in izumizaki-mura,nishishirakawa county,fukushima prefecture.
it was discovered in 1933 at the time of an expansion work for a prefectural road.
it was designated as a national historic site in 1934.
mural painting in the stone chamber
on the inner wall of the stone chamber,figures of two animals,a person on horseback shooting an arrow,four persons outstretching arms and legs and holding hands with each other and three persons holding articles were drawn in shu-iro(empire red)from right to left lining up sideways.
uzumaki-mon(a decorative spiral pattern),a person on horseback,a horse and small animals on the left wall,mill-stone and a horse on the right wall and several uzumaki-mon pattern on the ceiling were drawn all in empire red.
burial goods including chokuto(straight sword),tosu(small knife)and dokan(copper earring)were excavated from the stone chamber.
furthermore,the kofun is deemed to have been constructed in the early seventh century.
remains in the vicinity
the sekiwagu kanga remain located at about two kilometers south of izumizaki yokoana cave is the ancient site of gunga(county government offices)of the ancient shirakawa county and established from the end of the seventh century to the early eighth century.
there are the ancient site of its affiliated temple(kariyadohai-ji abandoned temple)across the abukuma-gawa river,shimosazuka-kofun tumulus(a large keyhole-shaped mound)nearby which is deemed to have been constructed in the late sixth century,the funada nakamichi remain which is the ancient site of a residence of gozoku(local ruling family)in the late sixth century and the yajikubo-kofun tumulus which is deemed to have been constructed in the seventh century.
in view of these remains,the central area of the shirakawa region from the late sixth century to the early eighth century is presumed to have been this area(the southern part of izumizaki village,nishishirakawa county,fukushima prefecture and the northern part of shirakawa city)and these remains including izumizaki yokoana cave are important for making clear the changes from the era of shirakawa no kuni no miyatsuko(regional administrator of shirakawa province)to the ancient shirakawa county.
furthermore,the sekiwagu kanga remain,the funada nakamichi remain,the yajikubo-kofun tumulus and the shimosazuka-kofun tumulus(shirakawa funada motonuma remain groups)were designated as national historic sites.
