kyoto international conference center
kyoto international conference center is an international conference hall located in takaragaike,sakyo ward,kyoto city.
summary
in 1966,it was built as japan's first national convention facility.
before this conference center was built,the new kyoto station for the tokaido shinkansen which was constructed next to the original kyoto station started operation,and kyoto city and the local business community saw the importance of access to this facility as a major factor.
*refer to kyoto station(the tokaido shinkansen)in railways and politics
many significant international conferences were held at this hall,including:the 3rd conference of the parties(cop)(kyoto conference)of the united nations framework convention on climate change(unfccc)which adopted the kyoto protocol,the united nations conference on disarmament,the plenipotentiary conference of the international telecommunication union(itu),the annual meeting of the international whaling commission(iwc)and its scientific committee,the conferences of the parties of convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora(washington convention),the world heritage committee session,and the asia-europe meeting(asem).
the kyoto conference of junior chamber international japan is held every january,and the award ceremony of the kyoto prize hosted by the inamori foundation,and the related commemorative speeches are held here every november.
this place is also known as the turn-around point for the inter-prefectural women's ekiden held every january,and the national high school ekiden(for men)which is held every december.
all sections of the kyoto city subway karasuma line and the nearby kokusaikaikan station started operation at the same time in 1997,and that greatly improved access to this facility from the city center or the shinkansen kyoto station.
design and construction
the design of this building was selected from 195 competing designs in the kenchiku konpe(an architecture design competition)hosted by the nation.
designed by sachio otani(sachio otani+otani associates)
completed in 1966.
purpose:conference hall
address:422 iwakuraozaki cho,sakyo ward,kyoto city
access:
from kokusaikaikan station on the kyoto city subway karasuma line,five minutes on foot.
this site was filmed in the following movies:
ultra seven,part 14 and 15: 'ultra guard to the west,' for the external view of 'rokko defense center' (a miniaturized model was also made).
robocop 3:filmed for an external view of the world headquarters of kanemitsu,a japanese related company in the movie.
