the bank of kyoto,ltd.
the bank of kyoto,ltd.,with its head office located in shimogyo ward,kyoto city,kyoto prefecture,does business in kyoto prefecture,and neighboring areas as a regional bank.
summary
it is officially designated as a financial institution in order to conduct business with the prefectural government of kyoto.
the corporate slogan is, "keep a natural attitude."
its eccentric tv commercial, "looong relationship(nagaaai otsukiai)," is well known.
the name in english is "the bank of kyoto," but "the bank for kyoto" is posted in its branches and atms.
the bank is financially sound,and it maintains one of the highest capital-to-asset ratios and credit ratings among regional banks,because the bank's stock portfolio includes a significant number of stocks in renowned local companies known as "kyoto brands," which maintain substantial appraisal profits,and it has been doing prudent business since before the "bubble" economy.
total deposits:¥5,112.3 billion
(as of the end of march 2006)
since 2007,the bank's logo has been on the sleeves of the uniforms of the kyoto sanga f.c.,which is the professional football team in kyoto.
soundness indicators
the following data is for the half-year ending as of september 2006:
capital-to-asset ratio
non-consolidated:11.11%based on domestic standards,or 14.66%based on the international financialreporting standards
consolidated:11.39%based on domestic standards,or 14.91%based on the international financial reporting standards
(as of september 30,2006)
credit rating
rating and investment information,inc.(r&i):astandard&poor's(s&p):a
(as of november 1,2006)
gain on revaluation of marketable securities(unrealized gain)
\332.1 billion(as of september 30,2006)
branch management
the bank has branches and local offices in cities and villages of kyoto prefecture,as well as in shiga prefecture,osaka prefecture,nara prefecture,hyogo prefecture and metropolitan tokyo.
during the prewar era,most bank offices in kyoto city were branches of major city banks,as was the case in tokyo city(now boroughs),but there were only a few regional banks.
unfortunately,every one of them took the path of merger into major banks,and during the war the regional banks in kyoto city became defunct;eventually the last of them,kyoto ouchi bank,was split and transferred to the fuji bank,limited(now mizuho bank,limited)and kyoto bank,whose head office was located in fukuchiyama city at that time.
for this reason,after the war there was a call to create regional banks with the local capital,and tanwa bank(with its head office in fukuchiyama city),which had originally been an integrated bank during the war in regions of tanba province and tango province,entered business in kyoto city.
in 1953,the bank moved its head office to the current location(formerly the site of the old takashimaya company,limited),and increased its number of branches in kyoto city through acquisition of those of other banks,including city banks or opening up them independently.
however,in the 1980s it abolished most of its branches outside kyoto prefecture.
the bank has yet to be officially designated by the kyoto city administration because it's a newcomer relatively speaking and its bank-deposit share(among financial institutions with more than a trillion yen in deposits)in kyoto city is comparable to those of kyoto chuo shinkin bank,the kyoto shinkin bank,the bank of tokyo-mitsubishi ufj,ltd.and sumitomo mitsui banking corporation.
(it accounts for less than a trillion yen in deposits in kyoto city,but there are other bank branches,such as mizuho bank and shiga bank in kyoto city,as well as many branches of the nanto bank,ltd.in the southern part of kyoto prefecture.)
in recent years,aiming to acquire new source of revenue,the bank has again started aggressively opening new branches outside kyoto prefecture.
since 2000 it has invested heavily,opening new branches in areas along the railway lines between kyoto and osaka in osaka prefecture in addition to neighboring shiga and nara prefectures,and it is actively competing with shiga bank and nanto bank as well as major city banks.
it opened the amagasaki branch(december,2004),kobe branch(september,2005),kawanishi branch(october,2007)and rokkomich branch(november,2005)in hyogo prefecture,encouraged by the absence of other competitive regional banks in the prefecture after the bankruptcy of the now-defunct hyogo bank(accelerating the increase of bank businesses from other prefectures,including kyoto bank).
it also operates an online branch called "the bank of kyoto,ltd.net direct."
the bank operates atms carrying the name "the bank of kyoto,ltd.station atm" at main stations jointly with keihan electric railway co.,ltd.
history
1884:gentaro tanaka founded kameoka bank(currently kameoka city branch:rakuraku so).
1941:ryotan bank(in fukuchiyama),miyazu bank(in miyazu),tango shoko bank(in mineyama)and tango sangyo bank emerged to establish tanwa bank(with its head office in fukuchiyama city).
1943:the kyoto branch(currently shichijo branch)was opened.
1951:the corporate name was changed to the bank of kyoto,ltd.
1953:the head office was moved to kyoto city.
1982:kyoto credit service co.,ltd.,was founded jointly with dc card(mitsubishi ufj nicos co.,ltd.).
