kyoto city heiankyo sosei-kan museum
located in nakagyo-ku ward of kyoto city,kyoto city heiankyo sosei-kan is a museum which occupies the first floor of kyoto city life-long education center(kyoto asny).
it opened on october 6,2006.
it is a major renewal of its predecessor 'heiankyo historical zone' which,opened in april 2005,used to exhibit a few items such as a reconstruction model of the city structure of heian-kyo(the ancient capital of japan in current kyoto).
in addition to the previous exhibits,it displays many items of excavated articles as well as new explanations using panels.
this museum houses relics of heiankyu sake-no-tsukasa(the office in charge of the imperial use of sake,sweet sake,or vinegar etc.)soko(storage site),where tiles are placed indicating the pillar holes positions of the warehouse.
these relics were designated as an official historical site by kyoto city in 1997.
catalogue of the exhibits
summary description panels of heiankyo
explanation panels of the foundation of heiankyo,jobo-sei(grid-like arrangement of streets and avenues),and a reconstruction picture of daidairi palace(the main administrative imperial palace of heiankyu)are displayed.
panels of the chronological table of major historical events regarding heiankyo are also displayed.
reconstructed models of heiankyo
a reconstructed model of the heiankyo capital is displayed:the 1/1000 scale model is 6.6 m wide and 7.8 m long;it consists of the capital area,the kamo-gawa river,the higashiyama area,and the kitayama area.
panels of photographs showing reconstructed models of kamigamo-sha shrine,hossho-ji temple,daikaku-ji temple,ninna-ji temple,toba rikyu(imperial villa),and others(total of twenty-two items)are displayed.
a reconstructed model of buraku-den hall(the main hall in the buraku-in complex of heiankyu palace,where important national ceremonies and ritualswere held)is displayed(1/20 scale).
it is illuminated inside.
life in the heian period
descriptive panels explaining clothes,food,and residences of nobles and common people in the heian period are displayed.
replicas of meals that common people ate at that time are displayed.
(this replica has been made using ayu(sweetfish)caught in the kamo-gawa river.)
about twenty excavated items,such as coins,foot wear,combs,and fans that were used in the heian period are displayed.
beliefs of people during the heian period
national treasures,kitano tenjin engi scroll painting replica(legends of kitano-tenjin shrine)(jokyu-bon:painted in the jokyu period,early thirteenth century)and its description panel are displayed.
it explains the origin and development of the beliefs,mainly goryo-shinko(a folk religious belief of avenging spirits),during the heian period.
heiankyo sake ministry storage site
the kyoto city heiankyo sosei-kan building now stands where the heiankyu sake ministry 'miki no tsukasa' was once located,and displayed here are photographs showing its excavation work,its reconstruction picture,excavated articles and their explanations,as well as explanations of the excavation research and revealed details of the heiankyo structure.
panel of quizzes about heiankyo for learners of kyoto history
quiz panel on heiankyo is placed to attract children's interest.
location and access
first floor of kyoto asny:shichihonmatsu-dori street nishi iru,marutamachi-dori street,nakagyo-ku ward,kyoto city
it is within a walking distance from marutamachi station of kyoto city subway.
it is very close to the 'marutamachi shichihonmatsu' bus stop(in front of kyoto asny)of kyoto city bus routes 93,202,and 204.
from enmachi station of sanin main line,walk 400 m eastward.
nearby attractions
kyoto city chuo library
remains of heiankyu buraku-den palace
remains of heiankyu daigoku-den palace
