yamazaki-bashi bridge
yamazaki-bashi bridge,also referred as yamasaki-hashi bridge is the name of several bridges in japan.
famous bridges are described below.
yamasaki-bashi bridge on the yodo-gawa river.
it was a historic bridge spanning the yodo-gawa river(between oyamazaki-cho and hashimoto in yawata city,kyoto prefecture).
one of the three old bridges in japan(yamazaki-bashi bridge as yamazaki taro,sekita-no-karahashi bridge as seta jiro,and uji-bashi bridge as uji saburo).
it is thought to have been built by the buddhist monk gyoki in 725.
it was washed away after repeated flooding and while there are records of a bridge in 850,in the eleventh century it was completely destroyed.
it was temporarily revived under the toyotomi government.
it was subsequently lost and since then it has never been reconstructed(two kilometers upstream is the goko-bashi bridge on kyoto moriguchi route,the kyoto and osaka prefectural road number 13.
from the time the bridge was lost until 1962 there was a ferry crossing the river.
currently,on the oyamazaki side,the name new yamazaki-bashi bridge is used for a bridge over the nearby small stream,and this is also the name of a bus stop.
furthermore,during the selection of the route for the keiji bypass,bidding activities were carried out with the catchphrase 'revival of the yamazaki-bashi bridge is the town's ardent wish.'
yamazaki-bashi bridge in kumamoto prefecture
a stone bridge in yamazaki,toyono-machi,uki city,kumamoto prefecture.
important cultural asset designated by the city.
it spans the ogumano-gawa river in the midori-gawa river water system.
it was built in 1831.
length 25 meters.
currently it is exclusively for pedestrians and its role has been passed on to the yamazaki-ohashi bridge.
national route 218 crosses the yamazaki-ohashi bridge.
yamazaki-bashi bridge in aichi prefecture.
it spans the yamazaki-gawa river in minami-ku ward,nagoya city,aichi prefecture.
the old tokaido road goes over this bridge.
a signpost remains at the north end.
