togetsu-kyo bridge
togetsu-kyo is a bridge over the katsura-gawa river in kyoto city,kyoto prefecture.
its north end is in ukyo-ku ward and its south end nishikyo-ku ward.
this bridge runs from north to south via nakanoshima island(saga nakanoshima-cho)to the foot of mt.arashi.
summary
dosho,a monk,is said to have built the first bridge between 834 and 848,and later ryoi suminokura is said to have built a bridge at the place where the present one is.
the footings of the present bridge are ferroconcrete,but its wooden railings fit with the beautiful scenery of arashiyama.
this bridge represents the scenic spot arashiyama,because many sightseeing brochures use photos showing this bridge,and it is often used for filming movies and tv dramas.
cars have crashed,broken through the railings and fallen into the water,and thrown away cigarette ends have been known to cause fires on the railings,because they are made of wood.
the origin of its name
when emperor kameyama saw a moon move above the bridge,he said, 'it looks as if the clear moon were walking over the bridge,' so it was named 'togetsu-kyo' (the bridge of the passing moon).
sightseeing
the area around togetsu-kyo is called arashiyama and attracts many tourists particularly as it is a scenic spot for cherry blossoms and autumn leaves.
kyoto prefectural road 801 kyoto-yawata-kizu cycling road begins at this bridge.
scenic spots in the area
jikishian(a small zen temple)
daikaku-ji temple
seiryo-ji temple
tenryu-ji temple
nonomiya-jinja shrine
nisonin temple
jojakko-ji temple
rakushisha(a small hut that used to belong to a haiku poet)
gio-ji temple
takiguchi-dera temple
horin-ji temple
nagatsuji-dori street:this street begins at the north end of the bridge and runs through arashiyama from north to south.
access
by train:
it is within walking distance of arashiyama station on the hankyu railway arashiyama line.
it is within walking distance of arashiyama station on the keifuku electric railroad arashiyama line(also referred as randen).
it is ten minutes on foot from saga arashiyama station on the jr west sagano line(sanin line).
by bus:
kyoto city bus or kyoto bus
take a bus for arashiyama or a bus that passes through arashiyama and get off at 'arashiyama' or 'arashiyama koen' bus stop.
the following bus routes cross the bridge:kyoto city bus(kyoto station--matsuo-bashi bridge--daikaku-ji temple),and kyoto bus(kyoto station--karasuma gojo--kegon-ji temple and saiho-ji temple:kawaramachi station--sanjo keihan--suzumushi-dera temple and koke-dera temple).
