nihon-itaria kyoto-kaikan(japan-italy kyoto-kaikan)
nihon-itaria kyoto-kaikan(italian:centro culturale italo giapponese di kyoto),located in kyoto and osaka,is the foundation that is jointly supervised by the ministry of foreign affairs and the ministry of education,culture,sports,science,and technology.
the purpose is to spread the science and culture of both japan and italy.
summary
with the aim of spreading science and culture of both japan and italy,nihon-itaria kyoto-kaikan is conducting such activities as seminars on italian culture,italian courses,and support for students who want to study in italy.
it was established in 1969 with motoichi nogami,a professor of an italian literature course,faculty of letters,kyoto university at the time,being the first chairman.
it possesses more than 7,500 pieces of material relating to italy,and it is one of the largest holders of such material.
incidentally,itaria bunka-kaikan kyoto(instituto italiano di cultura kyoto),which is also located in kyoto,is managed by the foreign ministry of italy.
purpose
the purpose is to enhance the mutual understanding and friendship between the two countries through research,introduction,and the spread of science and culture of both japan and italy.
history
april 1940:takaharu mitsui donated to the kyoto japan-italy association,the predecessor of nihon-itaria kyoto-kaikan,land located at 4,yoshidaushinomiya-machi,sakyo ward,kyoto city(location of current nihon-itaria kyoto-kaikan)as the building site for nihon-itaria kyoto-kaikan.
february 1965:italian ambassador to japan(at the time)coppini asked shigeru yoshida to provide cooperation for the establishment of the kyoto-kaikan.
june 1969:the establishment of the foundation was approved by the ministry of education(at the time)and the ministry of foreign affairs.
august 1969:the land for the kyoto japan-italy association was donated to nihon-itaria kyoto-kaikan.
september 1969:motoichi nogami,a professor of italian literature,faculty of letters,kyoto university(at the time),was appointed as the first chairman.
april 1974:the building of the kyoto-kaikan was completed.
may 2000:yasuhiro saito,a professor of italian literature,faculty of letters,kyoto university,was appointed as the second chairman.
may 2007:kei amano,an associate professor of italian literature,faculty of letters,kyoto university,was appointed as the third chairman.
description of business
joint research on the language,literature,history,politics,economy and culture of both japan and italy.
aid and support for the research on japan or the eastern world conducted by italian scholars and engineers.
support for the mutual exchange of scholars,artists,engineers,and students of both japan and italy.
holding courses,lectures,concerts,and exhibitions of italian language as well as the science and culture of italy.
when needed,courses of other languages,including spanish,that branched off from latin,the origin of italian,are also held.
collection,exhibition,information service,copy service,translation,and publication of italian documents and research materials.
communication with other organizations in japan and abroad which share the same purpose.
construction and management of the building of kyoto-kaikan.
other business necessary for achieving the purpose.
address
main building:4,yoshidaushinomiya-machi,sakyo ward,kyoto city
osaka office:8th floor,no.4 osaka-ekimae building,1-11-4,umeda,kita ward,osaka city
