"poppo land" fukuchiyama railway hall
"poppo land" fukuchiyama railway hall is a railway exhibition pavilion in fukuchiyama city,kyoto prefecture.
it was established in 1998 by a local organization,shinmachi shotengai(shinmachi shopping street)cooperative association,to display objects used in hokutan railway.
model exhibition
n gauge rail way models that faithfully reproduced the railway layout of fukuchiyama station at that time were created in 1997 by fukuchiyama city in celebration of its 60th anniversary,and they are displayed in "poppo land" fukuchiyama railway hall.
the current railway layout is different from the past layout,due to construction for elevating the fukuchiyama station;the fukuchiyama station on the ground at that time was saved as a model.
preserved vehicles
the third driving wheel of number 93,jnr steam locomotive c57 class is displayed in the pavilion.
the steam locomotive was assigned to fukuchiyama engine depot(later fukuchiyama rail depot)from 1957 to 1970,and after it was retired in 1973,it was preserved in the ikuno town-run ikuno primary school(later changed to asago city-run ikuno primary school due to merging of cities towns and villages).
this vehicle was going to be dismantled in august 1998,which was when the poppo land opened.
thus,only the driving wheel of the vehicle was contributed by jr-west to poppo land for display in the pavilion.
apart from this,there is a building named "poppo land ii fukuchiyama railway hall" where a whole car of number 56,jnr steam locomotive c58 class is preserved.
it was transferred to fukuchiyama engine depot on february 26,1961 and was used in fukuchiyama until march 25,1970,when it was retired.
in october 1968,it pulled the imperial train for the national sports festival in fukui prefecture.
after it was retired,it was initially preserved in a park which used to be the fukuchiyama nishi station of hokutan railway,and then it was transferred to and accommodated in poppo land on september 25,1999.
information
address:32 shimoshin machi,fukuchiyama city,kyoto prefecture
access:twelve minutes walk from fukuchiyama station of sanin main line,west japan railway company.
closed days:every thursday
business hours:10:00-17:30
entrance fee:free
neighboring attractions
fukuchiyama-jo castle
goryo-jinja shrine(fukuchiyama city)
