sukiya-zukuri
sukiya-zukuri is one of the japanese architectural styles,and is characterized as a design of residential house in a sukiya(teahouse)style.
its name comes from 'suki' which means enjoying furyu(elegant aestheticism),such as waka(31 syllable japanese poem),tea ceremony,and japanese flower arrangement(refer to sukimono),and 'sukiya' means 'a house built as you like,' or a teahouse.
it is a house built by sukiya carpenters(refer to daiku(carpenters))using a specific method of timber-framework.
history
teahouses called sukiya first appeared in the azuchi-momoyama period.
originally a sukiya was a small stand-alone teahouse(at most 4 and a half tatami mats in size)built facing a garden.
at that time,shoin-zukuri,containing an impressive room furnished with an alcove,shelf,and tsukeshoin(a built-in table)were already established,with its role in maintaining hierarchy and status,but masters of ceremonial tea disliked formal designs and gorgeous decoration.
they liked sukiya which were built in a light and easy style.
in the edo period the sukiya style spread from teahouses to residential houses.
today,many houses and fancy japanese-style restaurants are modeled after sukiya architecture.
experts of architectural history call it 'sukiya style shoin,' considering it not as an original style but rather as a kind of shoin-zukuri.
design unique to sukiya-zukuri:
sukiya architecture is characterized by complete elimination of the status and style that shoin architecture put emphasis on.
its design is simple and sophisticated,reflecting the spirit of a tea master in rejecting superficial decoration and stressing internal self improvement to entertain guests.
the following are features of sukiya-zukuri:
the omission of nageshi(a horizontal piece of timber in a frame):
menkawabashira(bark surfaces)with round surfaces are used,usually in place of these nageshi.
alcove:
the alcove in a sukiya is small and simple compared with that of a shoin-zukuri.
deep eaves:
the eaves are wide,creating shadows and a feeling of peacefulness inside the room.
typical remains of sukiya-zukuri:
shin-shoin of katsura imperial villa
shugakuin imperial villa
manshu-in temple
rinshunkaku villa(sankeien garden)
sumiya
other
a luxurious japanese-style mansion built for a lavish amount of money is commonly called 'sukiya-zukuri' or 'sukiya-bushin.'
junichiro tanizaki loved sukiya.
his own house was of sukiya style,and he extolled the beauty of sukiya in his essay "ineiraisan."
