hebizuka-kofun tumulus
hebizuka-kofun tumulus is a tumulus located in uzumasa,ukyo ward,kyoto city,kyoto prefecture.
it is a large keyhole-shaped mound with the largest horizontal stone chamber in kyoto prefecture.
it was designated as a national historical site(on may 4,1977).
size and shape
the length of the tumulus is estimated to be approximately 75 m.
the burial mound is now lost and the stone chamber is solely exposed.
the chamber has the total length of 17.8 m.
the burial chamber is 6.8 m long and 5.2 m high.
it is as large as the ishibutai-kofun tumulus in asuka village.
its floor space is the forth largest in japan.
only the stone chamber is specified as a national historical site.
its interior is now reinforced with a steel frame to prevent it from caving in.
surrounded by a fence,it is bolted so that no one can enter under usual circumstances.
construction period and the buried
the tumulus was constructed in the late sixth century to the early seventh which is the late kofun(tumulus)period.
as an extant keyhole-shaped tumulus in kyoto prefecture it belongs to the very end of the period.
while the buried have not been identified,it has been assumed that he was a chief-like personage of the hata clan.
some have identified him as hata no kawakatsu.
access
approximately seven-minute walk south of katabiranotsuji station,the keifuku electric railroad.
located in the middle of a residential area,the tumulus is not so easy to find.
others
the origin of the name, "hebizuka" (snake hill)is sometimes explained that snakes used to live in the stone chamber.
before the surrounding area turned into a residential district,the stone chamber towered high in an empty space.
it was easily accessible.
it was once called 'iwaya.'
the hebizuka-kofun tumulus is often compared to the ishibutai-kofun tumulus in terms of the size of its stone chamber.
the stone chamber of ishibutai-kofun tumulus is made of granite whereas the hebizuka-kofun tumulus is made of sedimentary rock.
the ceiling stone of the hebizuka-kofun tumulus has been lost.
in the north-east of the tumulus,there used to be a studio named 'hebizuka(omokage)film studio,' (the uzumasa studio of arashi kanjuro production,which later became a part of the open set of daiei film company).
tumuli in sagano
there were many tumuli such as the hebizuka-kofun tumulus in sagano,but most have disappeared due to urban development.
the extant tumuli are as follows.
amazuka-kofun tumulus(national historical site)
the amazuka-kofun tumulus is a keyhole-shaped mound with the total length of 71 m,built in the late kofun period,
it consists of two horizontal stone chambers of which one is 10 m long and the other is 7.5 m long.
chiyonomichi-kofun tumulus
the chiyonomichi-kofun tumulus is a round barrow with the diameter of 16 m,built in the late kofun period.
it has a horizontal stone chamber.
narabigaoka burial mounds
situated in narabigaoka(scenic beauty),the narabigaoka burial mounds is a tumulus complex with 20 burial mounds built during the mid kofun period.
burial mound no.1(ichinooka-kofun tumulus)in particular is a round barrow with the diameter of 44 m.
it has a horizontal chamber made of a stone as gigantic as the one in the hebizuka-kofun tumulus.
daikaku-ji burial mounds
these burial mounds were constructed during the late kofun period.
of the four extant tumuli burial mound no.1(maruyama-kofun tumulus)and burial mound no.2(nyudotsuka-kofun tumulus)are designated as referable mausoleums.
tarumiyama-kofun tumulus(katahiraotsuka-kofun tumulus and the takabatake mausoleum of imperial prince nakano)
located 500 m north of the hebizuka-kofun tumulus,the tumulus is a large keyhole-shaped mound with a length of 75 m.
like the hebizuka-kofun tumulus,it is ascribed to the late kofun period though it seems to have been constructed during the mid sixth century.
being well-preserved,it is currently managed by the imperial household agency.
