fushimi-jo castle
fushimi-jo castle was a castle in what is now fushimi ward,kyoto city.
"fushimi momoyama-jo castle" is a recent construction that did not exist historically(details to follow).
overview
fushimi-jo castle was originally built by hideyoshi toyotomi for his own residence after retirement.
construction spanning the reigns of 3 emperors,it was first built on mt.shizuki,there called shizuki fushimi-jo castle,and after an earthquake was moved to mt.kohata and named kohata fushimi-jo castle.
furthermore,there was the kohata fushimi-jo castle that was built in the days of toyotomi,and the one that was rebuilt in the tokugawa days after being destroyed in the battle of sekigahara.
after hideyoshi's death and in accordance with his will,hideyori toyotomi moved to osaka-jo castle;after which ieyasu tokugawa,leader of the council of 5 elders,moved into this castle and took over government.
although it was protected by ieyasu's vassals,mototada torii et alia,during the battle of sekigahara,it was attacked and burned by ishida(the siege of fushimi-jo castle).
it was later rebuilt by ieyasu;and after it was razed its structures and materials were moved to other locations.
after it was razed,the location of the citadel was made into a peach orchard and was called momoyama(peach mountain).
that is why fushimi-jo castle is typically called momoyama-jo castle;and this is the reason why the period of oda-toyotomi government is called the "azuchi-momoyama period" and the culture of the time called "momoyama culture".
according to the account that says the descendants of the family that reclaimed the land are the yoshimura family,which founded yoshimura shuzo,they were the heads of horiuchi village,built on the ruins of fushimi-jo castle;and it is said that they transferred village land to the imperial household in the meiji period.
historically,there was no direct connection.
since the tokugawa-era keep was moved to nijo-jo castle,there is a relatively large number of artifacts left;but there is much that is unclear about the previous keep.
history
the details are unclear.
1592-in the low-lying hills along the uji-gawa river where hideyoshi toyotomi made his home on mt.shizuki in retirement,parts of the dismantled jurakudai were transferred for the building of a castle(shizuki-jo castle).
1596-because it was destroyed in an earthquake,a new castle was built about 500 meters away on mt.kohata(present day mt.momoyama).
1598-hideyoshi toyotomi died in this castle
1600-burned in the siege of fushimi castle
1601-rebuilt by ieyasu tokugawa
1603-was the site of the inauguration of seii taishogun
fushimi-jo castle's functions moved to osaka-jo castle after the siege of osaka,reducing this castle's importance in the eyes of the edo shogunate;and it was therefore razed in 1625 after ieyasu tokugawa's retirement.
1964-fushimi momoyama-jo castle land,an amusement park featuring a mock castle keep "fushimi momoyama-jo castle",was built on the site of the fushimi-jo castle flower garden.
january 2003-fushimi momoyama-jo castle land was closed as part of the restructuring of its parent company,kintetsu corporation.
fushimi momoyama-jo castle escaped destruction thanks to a movement by the people of kyoto to preserve it as a symbol of fushimi.
nowadays it is maintained as a park.
the city of kyoto received it at no cost;but the inside is closed to the public because it has deteriorated with age.
october 2007-when it was remodeled to look like osaka-jo castle for the filming of a period movie, "chacha:the woman from far away",the tiger decorations below the watch tower and shachihoko were painted gold.
with toei films bearing the remodeling cost of around 1 million yen,work to remake it into osaka-jo castle continues within the year.
ruins
when the castle was dismantled,the keep and many other buildings were moved to other locations.
the most famous are nijo-jo castle and jojakko-ji temple;the turrets,castle gate,palace,bath,tamon yagura turret,and earthen walls all were moved to fukuyama-jo castle(bingo province).
below is a list of major items that are thought to have been moved and still exist.
note:among these,the only ones that can be proven are the guest hall of saikyo-ji temple,which is the remains from mt.shizuki,and fukuyama-jo castle's fushimi yagura,which is left over from the tokugawa era.
stone wall
yodo-jo castle(fushimi ward)
osaka-jo castle(osaka city,osaka prefecture)
castle gate
gokogu-jinja shrine(fushimi ward):omote-mon gate(relocated ote-mon gate)
nishi hongan-ji temple(shimogyo ward):kara-mon gate
nisonin(ukyo ward):so-mon gate
kannon-ji temple(kamigyo ward):san-mon gate
zuiho-ji park(kobe city,hyogo prefecture)
josho-ji temple(shikigun tawaramoto-cho,nara prefecture):omote-mon gate(rebuilt from fushimi-jo castle korai-mon gate)
turret
fukuyama-jo castle(fukuyama city,hiroshima prefecture):fushimi yagura turret(important cultural property)
palace
daistu-ji temple(nagahama city,shiga prefecture):main hall(important cultural property)
higurashi goten-tsukubusuma-jinja shrine(chikubu island,nagahama city,shiga prefecture):main hall(national treasure)
others
lord's antechamber-sankei-en(naka ward,yokohama city)
movable noh stage-fukuwama-jo castle(fukuyama city,hiroshima prefecture),present-day nunakuma-jinja shrine(tomonoura,fukuyama city,hiroshima prefecture)(important cultural property)
tea rooms-kodai-ji temple(higashiyama ward):shigure-tei,kasa-tei(both important cultural properties)
military court-mt.watanabe shuko-ji temple(toyota city,aichi prefecture):main hall
fushimi goten fusuma painting-fukuyama-jo castle(fukuyama city,hiroshima prefecture)
