yanagimoto otsuka-kofun tumulus(a tumulus in tenri city,nara prefecture)
the yanagimoto otsuka-kofun tumulus is an ancient tomb located in tenri city,nara prefecture.
it belongs to the yanagimoto-kofun tumuli cluster.
summary
location:otsuka,yanagimoto-cho,tenri city
buried person:unknown
time of construction:the first half of the early kofun period(tumulus period).
tomb shape:a large keyhole-shaped mound.
the back circular part is not precise circle shaped.
the front of the front square part is an arch which gets narrower instead of extending like a plectrum.
a surrounding moat is unverified in the west tomb hill.
size:approximately 94 meters in total length.
the back circular part is 54 meters in diameter.
the burial facilities:the main chamber,a pit stone chamber(approximately 3.6 meters in length and approximately 3.6 meters in width)along the north-south axis in the center of the back circular part mound,and a hollowed-out wooden ship-shaped coffin(approximately 2 meters in length and approximately 1.2 meters in width),from which copper arrowheads and iron vessels were found.
a small irregular circle shaped stone chamber 1 meter in diameter was set up where ogata bosei naiko kamon-kyo(a large bronze mirror manufactured in japan with patterns like a flower-petal)with 39.7 centimeters in diameter was placed.
this small stone chamber is a gassho-style(an architect method of beams combined to form a steep roof that resembles two hands together)stone chamber with flagstones jutting into the ceiling,which may have been a subsidiary chamber to put in grave goods.
unearthed relics
ogata naiko kamon-kyo(a large mirror with patterns like a flower-petal):steel mirror,39.7centimeters in diameter,owned by the imperial household agency;only uzumaki-mon pattern(a decorative spiral pattern)is used as the unit of pattern arranged in the spaces between shiyoza(decorative pieces arranged like four leaves)pieces,renko-mon(a decorative pattern with consecutive arcs arranged like a flower)pattern,and raiun-mon(a decorative pattern with thunder cloud)zone.
(shiyoza piece and renko-mon pattern are surrounded by shumon[a raised bead]beads laid closely together as a pattern of the base.)
six copper arrowhead
iron fragments
