taira-sanbashi bridge
taira-sanbashi is a landing bridge at maizuru port.
this is where repatriates from the people's republic of china and people who had been illegally detained in the soviet union set foot in the home country they so eagerly hoped to return to.
it is also called "hikiage-sanbashi" (repatriation bridge).
summary
at the end of the pacific war the number of japanese expatriates stranded overseas was estimated to be more than 6.6 million,and maizuru port and another nine ports were designated repatriation ports and the repatriation support bureau was set up to help them return to japan.
although maizuru-nishi port(west port)was initially designated for the repatriation,later the designation was changed to taira-sanbashi bridge at maizuru-higashi port(east port)in 1947 when the repatriation from the soviet union started,and many repatriates arrived at taira-sanbashi bridge during the following thirteen years.
a monument stands at the landing bridge which has been restored to its original state.
close to this bridge is maizuru repatriation memorial museum which stores the records of repatriation.
because 2005 is the 60th anniversary of the repatriation,several memorial events are planned to be held on and around november 7,which was the date the first repatriation ship arrived in the port.
access
by train and by bus:
from jr higashi maizuru station,take a mihama route or tai nohara route bus owned by kyoto kotsu,and get off at the 'hikiage kinen koen mae bus stop' (time required:approximately 15 minutes).
from jr higashi maizuru station,take the maizuru sightseeing bus,and get off at the 'hikiage kinenkan bus stop.'
by car
from maizuru higashi interchange on the maizuru-wakasa expressway,take kyoto prefectural road 28 kokura nishi maizuru route,(kyoto prefectural road 51 maizuru wachi route),national route 27,and drive heading for oura peninsula on kyoto prefectural road/fukui prefectural road 21 maizuru noharako takahama route(time required:approximately 20 minutes).
