asuka no kiyomihara no miya palace(an ancient imperial palace where emperor tenmu and then emperor jito lived)
asuka no kiyomihara no miya(also known as asuka kiyomigahara no miya)was a palace where emperor tenmu and then by empress jito lived in the late seventh century.
according to tradition,the palace was located in asuka,asuka village,nara prefecture.
as a result of a recent dig,it is now believed to be located in the asuka-kyo(the capital of asuka)ruins in oka,asuka village.
according to an article about the events of 672 recorded in the "nihonshoki" (chronicles of japan).
the palace was built to the south of okamoto no miya.'
tenmu emperor had moved and stayed there since the winter of the year.'
the palace was named asuka no kiyomihara no miya.'
also an article about the events of august 686 describes as follows.
the era name was changed to akamidori.'
therefore,the palace was named asuka no kiyomihara no miya.'
take this into account,the palace name 'asuka no kiyomihara no miya' was named in 686.
then it means the palace had no name from december 672 to july 686.
the palaces in asuka had place-names where they were located,as will be seen from the names,such as toyura no miya,oharida no miya,asuka okamoto no miya and nochino asuka no okamoto no miya.
the exception was asuka no kiyomihara no miya.
kiyomihara' was a buddhist invocation,so the palace was named in the hope for purification of evil and recovery of the emperor from illness.
in the taika zendai period(before the taika reforms),the palace moved with the subrogation of emperors mostly within asuka region.
at the taika period,emperor kotoku decided to build nagara no toyosaki no miya in naniwa,and emperor tenchi moved the palace to omi no otsu no miya.
prince oama,who won the jinshin war in 672,constructed the palace to put the capital back to asuka from omi no miya in omi province(currently shiga prefecture)where was the capital during the periods of emperor tenchi and emperor kobun.
in 673,the following year,prince oama ascended the throne as emperor tenmu at the palace.
after that,emperor tenmu and next empress jito who was emperor tenmu's wife started a system of centralized government based on the ritsuryo codes at the palace over the 20 years.
in 694,the capital was transferred to fujiwara-kyo,and asuka no kiyomihara no miya was abandoned.
japan's first code,the asuka kiyomihara code,was also edited here.
according to the "nihonshoki" edited in the seventh century,there were some palace buildings named such as uchi no andono in asuka no kiyomihara no miya palace.
in 2004,the archaeological institute of kashihara,nara prefecture,excavated the asuka-kyo ruins and found remains of a large high-floored building.
they confirmed it was the seiden(main palace)of the asuka no kiyomihara no miya.
the palace fell within the range approximately measuring 800 meters from north to south and 500 meters from east to west.
