maizuru-ben(maizuru dialect)
"maizuru-ben" is a japanese dialect descended from kinki dialect and extended over the area from maizuru city of kyoto prefecture along wakasa bay to a part of the reinan region of fukui prefecture(takahama-cho).
summary
it has hardly any thing in common with tango dialect spoken in nearby miyazu city and kyotango city,but rather resembles tanba dialect.
border line between tango dialect and maizuru dialect exists around nagu,miyazu city.
according to a theory,the difference between the two dialects is due to a rugged mountainous area along the coast that blocked traffics of people where nagu is located..
"chatta"
the most popular expression of maizuru dialect is 'chatta.'
this 'chatta' of maizuru dialect is derived from the name of a festival, 'minato maizuru chatta matsuri' which is held late in july every year.
this wording 'chatta' is commonly used in both present progressive form and past form.
being different from 'chatta' of tokyo dialect,it implies a light deference similarly to 'hatta' of kyoto dialect.
it is a very convenient expression that you may use for anybody of the same age,senior or junior,or even for children of the neighborhood,except for yourself.
the same 'chatta' is used not only in the maizuru dialect area but also in the areas of tanba dialect and a part of banshu dialect(kami-cho,taka county,hyogo prefecture).
examples of use
kaimono ni dekake-rareta' (literally, 'went out shopping')-> 'kaimono ni dekake-chatta'
...san wa okaeri ni natta' (literally 'mr.,mrs.or miss...has left')ï¼> '...san wa kae-chatta'
kite kureta' (literally, 'has come or came all the way')-> 'kite kure chatta' (a somewhat polite expression)or 'kichatta' (a flat expression).
the other examples of maizuru dialect
another famous maizuru dialect is 'totte.'
the word 'ura' in maizuru dialect means 'ushiro or oku' ('behind' or 'back')in the common language,which causes confusion to unaccustomed people.
examples of use
itte orareruyo' (literally, 'somebody is saying')becomes 'iu(or yu)totteyade'
...shite irunja-naika?' (literally, 'is somebody doing...?')becomes '...shitotten chaun?'
...tte itte irunoka?' (literally, 'do you mean...?')becomes '...yatteka?'
gohan wo tabete orareru noka?' (literally, 'are you taking a meal?')becomes 'gohan,tabe-totteka?'
..no koho-zaseki ni noru' (literally, 'sit on the seat behind..')becomes '..no ura ni noru'
tansu no oku no ho' (literally, 'in the back of a drawer')becomes 'tansu no ura no ho'
