sangaku
sangaku,which was imported from the asian continent into japan in the nara period,is the collective name of various amusement arts including,but not limited to,mimicry,acrobatics/stunt,trick,magic,puppet show and japanese dancing.
of various japanese arts,it is regarded as the origin of popular arts such as variety shows.
history
time of importation
its origin is believed to be various arts of the western region of china.
various arts of central asia,west asia,alexandria,ancient greece and ancient rome were introduced,via the silk road,into china over a period of several centuries.
it is generally said that these arts were collectively named 'sangaku' in the sui era of china with the implication that these arts were,unlike gagaku,which was a court art, 'informal music with no fixed rules.'
actually,however,it is believed that worldly music(old sangaku)called sangaku existed as early as the zhou or han era.
along with other continental cultures,it was introduced into japan in the nara period.
however,the possibility that it arrived from the asian continent earlier than the above cannot be denied.
materials useful for understanding the history of sangaku in japan are "shoku nihongi" (chronicles of japan continued)and "nihon sandai jitsuroku" (sixth of the six classical japanese history texts),both are history books written in the era when sangaku was performed at imperial court.
in "shoku nihongi," there is a description stating that the emperor shomu enjoyed in 735 the music of tan/silla and acrobatics of hokoyuke(spear play)performed by chinese.
the above is regarded as the oldest record concerning sangaku.
sangaku-ko(sangaku section)was established in utaryo(bureau of traditional music)sometime in the tenpyo era and sangaku became an art protected by the imperial court.
sangaku was performed,along with other arts,on the occasion of the buddhist ceremony to consecrate the great buddha of todai-ji temple held in 752.
due to its popularity and vulgarity,sangaku-ko was abolished in 782,in the era of emperor kanmu.
after the abolition of sangaku-ko
nevertheless,the abolition of sangaku-ko doesn't necessarily mean that sangaku was no longer performed at the imperial court.
it was performed in the heian period as entertainment at banquets.
in "nihon sandai jitsuroku," for example,there is a description stating that emperor ninmyo ordered in 837 to perform rodama(ball playing)and roto(sword playing-stunt similar to current juggling).
other than the above,there is a description in "nihon sandai jitsuroku" stating that sangaku was performed as the entertainment of goryo-e(ritual ceremony to repose of spirit of a deceased person).
among the descriptions of "nihon sandai jitsuroku," what is noteworthy is the one stating that sangaku performed in 880 as the entertainment of sumai no sechie(ritual performances of sumo at the imperial court)made people burst into laughter since its performers were almost like fools.
this is a precious record from which we can gather the fact that sangaku performers at the time performed not only stunts but also humorous mimicry which led to kyogen(farce played during a noh play cycle).
after the abolition of sangaku-ko and the imperial court's protection,sangaku was performed more freely than ever before at temples/shrines or on streets and caught ordinary people's eyes.
as a result,it was spread throughout japan by provincials who saw sangaku in kyoto.
over time,groups performing sangaku at various places began to appear.
later,these groups were merged into the theatrical group of sarugaku(form of theater popular in japan during 11th to 14th century)and/or dengaku(a style of dancing and music performed at agricultural festivals)or became wandering puppet players.
in the wake of the order issued by emperor murakami in 963,sangaku was no more performed at the imperial court.
since then,various arts collectively called sangaku were taken over by various professional arts that spread in the society.
in the kamakura period,the term sangaku was no more in use.
subsequent historical lineage
sarugaku whose origin was mimicry,one of various arts of sangaku,later developed into noh play thanks to kanami and zeami.
some of the stunt elements were later inherited by kabuki(traditional performing art).
humorous arts developed into kyogen or comical entertainment which built up their unique art culture.
tricks became 'tezuma' in early-modern times.
various arts of sangaku that used puppets became kugutsu(puppet play)and over time,it were replaced by ningyo joruri(traditional japanese puppet theater-bunraku).
as shown above,sangaku had an immeasurable impact on the arts of subsequent times.
