mizu-yokan
mizu-yokan is japanese confectionery,and is a type of yokan(azuki-bean jelly).
process of making
the typical way of making mizu-yokan is similar to that of regular yokan,which is to mix sugar and bean jam together and make it hard by cooking with agar.
mizu-yokan is softer than regular yokan because it is made to contain more water.
generally ogura-an(sweet azuki bean paste containing both mashed and whole beans)is used for making mizu-yokan,but sometimes white bean jam is used instead.
another way of making mizu-yokan is to use brown sugar instead of bean jam.
first,soak a bar of agar in water and tear it into small pieces,and boil it in a pan with water(500-600cc of water per one bar of agar).
when the agar is dissolved,add sugar and bean jam in the pan(in some cases,also add powdered arrowroot mixed with a little water)and heat it to a boil again.
cool the material in the pan,strain it,put it in a container and allow it to cool until it becomes hard.
form
most mizu-yokan is sold in an aluminum can or a plastic cup.
some fancy confectioners sell mizu-yokan contained in a bamboo cylinder.
mizu-yokan used to be made in a large wooden container and sold by the piece.
as a vestige of that,some stores in fukui prefecture and ishikawa prefecture make mizu-yokan in a paperboard container to sell.
season
mizu-yokan is often eaten chilled in summer,and it is also a kigo(a season word)of summer for haiku(japanese seventeen-syllable poem).
however,mizu-yokan is mostly eaten in winter in places like fukui prefecture,osaka prefecture(in the nose-cho area),kyoto prefecture(in the kameoka city area),ishikawa prefecture(in the wajima city area),niigata prefecture(in the joetsu city area),yamagata prefecture(in the tsuruoka city area),and tochigi prefecture(in the nikko city area).
mizu-yokan made in fukui prefecture is very different;it is made with brown sugar and agar,and the texture is extremely soft since it contains a lot of water.
in fukui prefecture,kameoka city(kyoto prefecture),and nose-cho(osaka prefecture),mizu-yokan is sometimes called detchi-yokan(cheap yokan containing less azuki beans and sugar).
the making process and texture are very different from detchi-yokan made in kyoto prefecture and omihachiman city,shiga prefecture.
detchi-yokan made in nara prefecture and in the iga district in mie prefecture is similar to the mizu-yokan made in fukui prefecture.
