nagauta
nagauta is a type of musical genre that first appeared in the edo period,and it's formal name is therefore edo nagauta.
in addition,there is a separate type of music called kaminagauta,which is a type of jiuta.
edo nagauta
edo nagauta differ from genre in which spoken word is a core element,such as gidayubushi and the like,in that the compositions are centered on singing.
performances are basically comprised of multiple persons singing accompanied by the shamisen(a type of string instrument);however,depending on the composition,there are pieces that include accompaniment by various sizes of drums,flutes,and the like.
furthermore,in addition to the usual shamisen accompaniment,there are also compositions that have an additional shamisen part,called the 'uwajoshi.
nagauta developed as a form of music performed in conjunction with kabuki(a type of drama).
representative composures of lyrics and music include sansho kanai,kichiji fujita the 1st,kichiji fujita the 2nd,jisuke sakurada the 1st,shojiro kineya the 1st,shojiro kineya the 3rd,rokuzaemon kineya the 9th,rokuzaemon kineya the 10th,kangoro kineya the 3rd,rokusaburo kineya the 4th,katsusaburo kineya the 2nd,jokan kineya the 2nd,kosaburo yoshizumi the 4th,and so on.
types of musical notation
bunka notation(also called "red notation")
kenseikai notation
kojuro notation
kojuro notation was a form that evolved based on the methodology developed by kojuro yoshizumi,a disciple of kosaburo yoshizumi the 4th,in the taisho era.
the notation is written vertically.
the scale corresponds to the first through seventh intervals of the western scale,and is primarily notated in two-four time.
octaves jumps in are indicated in the notation with a point mark to the right of a number for an octave higher,and to the left of the number for an octave lower(the lowest number octave is 7).
aoyagi notation
kinekatsu notation
samon notation
kamigata nagauta
kamigata nagauta is a type of jiuta.
compared to hauta,kouta and the like,the nagauta genre developed as a lengthened form of the shamisen accompanied song performed in the areas of kyoto and osaka in the early edo period.
it originated in the genroku era,being first composed by edo kengyo(blind musicians),and was primarily developed as a type of household music or party music.
the verse is composed as 'kumiuta' of the gabun style.
it is thought that the stage music 'edo nagauta' branched off from this.
