toei kyoto movie studio
the toei kyoto movie studio is located in uzumasa,ukyo ward,kyoto city.
the studio is owned by a major movie production company called toei,a member of motion picture producers association of japan,inc.
the site is currently home to toei business offices and kyoto uzumasa eigamura(toei movie land),an amusement park with toei movies sets open to general public.
it has only been a little over 50 years since it became toei;however,the studio itself was opened over 80 years ago in 1926 by tsumasaburo bando.
data
name:toei company ltd.,kyoto movie studio
location:9,uzumasanishihachioka-cho,ukyo ward,kyoto city,kyoto prefecture
brief history/summary
events leading up to its establishment
on may 2,1925,tsumasaburo bando productions created its own movie studio after clearing a bamboo grove,
the uzumasa movie studio of tsumasaburo bando production of ichiritsu&company,ltd.' became the first movie studio in the uzumasa district.
at the end of december of the same year,the company went public.
in 1930,ownership of the studio shifted to shochiku,and the studio was used by teikoku kinema(imperial cinema entertainment co.ltd.),an affiliate of shochiku,and the name of the studio was changed to teikoku kinema uzumasa movie studio.
in 1931,teikoku kinema was reorganized,and with the establishment of shinko kinema,the studio was renamed new kinema kyoto studio.
in january 1942,the merger of shinko kinema,daito eiga and nikkatsu's production division,established a new company,daiei,and the studio became daiei no.2 studio.
in 1947,toyoko film company was established and the studio became the property of the company.
on april 1,1951,toyoko film company,oizumi films and tokyo film distribution company merged to establish toei.
toyoko movie studio became the toei kyoto movie studio and the uzumasa movie studio became the toei tokyo movie studio,and the distribution and box office operation of the tokyo film distribution company was reorganized as toei company,ltd.with head office,branch office and direct managed movie theaters.
toei as a film studio
since the opening of the toei kyoto movie studio in 1951,many great movies has been filmed there.
because of its location and past history,the majority of movies filmed in the studio are historical in nature,and many of contemporary tv dramas are also filmed there.
toei uzumasa films,that produces historical tv movies,and the toei kyoto movie studio,that manages toei uzumasa eigamura(toei movie land),are affiliates of toei company,but under independent management.
