nihon ikebana geijutsu kyokai(japan ikebana association)
nihon ikebana geijutsu kyokai is a japanese foundation intended for the promotion of the art of flower arrangement.
it was established with princess kikuko,the wife of imperial prince nobuhito as the honorary president and honorary vice-president in 1966.
to the first executive office responsible for the actual management,nominated were senei ikenobo(ikenobo school)as vice chairperson,sofu teshigahara(sogetsuryu)as administrative director,houn ohara(ohararyu)as deputy administrative director,and tadao yamamoto(ikenobo)as consultant.
joining the association is at the school level,and requires the recommendation of the representative person of the school.
more than 300 flower arrangement schools are registered and the total number of the members is more than 4,000(east 2,392,west 1,786 as of 2007).
the association has both eastern and western offices in japan:the former is at yuraku-cho,chiyoda ward,tokyo and the latter is at koraibashi,chuo ward,osaka city.
timeline
1966
established as nihon ikebana geijutsu kyokai(japan ikebana association).
the honorary president was princess kikuko,the wife of takamatsunomiya.
1967
taizo ishizaka(then the chairman of nippon keidanren[japan business federation])assumed vice presidency.
1992
princess hanako,the wife of imperial prince masahito assumed honorary presidency.
1998
shoichiro toyoda of toyota motor corporation(former chairman of keidanren)assumed vice-presidency.
in 2007 atsuko toyama(former minister of education,culture,sports,science and technology)assumed chairperson.
major activities
sponsors 'nihon ikebana geijutsu exhibition' (twice a year).
entries to exhibitions and others.
publication of bulletin 'hana' (flowers)(issued once a year).
medals of honor:ikebana hosho-hai(a medal of honor for ikebana)
training:development of new people
publicity and popularization of ikebana(including overseas)
members of the board
the names of the officers as of 2007 are as follows:
honorary president
princess hanako,the wife of prince hitachinomiya
vice president
shoichiro toyoda
honorary chairman
nao inumaru
chairman
atsuko toyama
vice-chairman
yuki ikenobo
vice-chairman
akane teshigahara
honorary advisor
senei ikenobo
advisors
haruhiko ishikawa,etsuko hattori
consultants
kazuhiko kudo,kasen yoshimura
administrative director
sekiho hihara
deputy administrative directors
riho senba,toho noda
