kayariki(a mosquito repellent stick holder)
kayariki(a mosquito repellent stick holder)is a device to steady a burning repellent stick and to facilitate the post-cleaning of it,keeping ashes from flying off,by burning a mosquito repellent stick in or on it.
in other words,it is an ashtray for mosquito repellent sticks.
kayariki(a mosquito repellent stick holder)vary in shape or color,and exquisite(or simple)ceramic kayariki is one of the summer features.
kayariki is small,but it deals with fire;it is made of materials with fire resistance and are flame resistant such as ceramic or metal.
among various kayariki,a ceramic kayariki is the most common, 'kayaributa' (a mosquito repellent stick holder in the shape of a pig)is one of well-known designs including banko-yaki(banko ceramic ware)in yokkaichi-juku station(yokkaichi city,mie prefecture).
apart from ceramic kayariki,a simple metal plate as a base exists,while kayariki made of glass fiber with fire resistance also exist.
when repellent sticks in bulk are purchased from a supplier,such metal kayariki may be given as a free gift.
during the period when no means other than kayariki were available for extermination of mosquitoes,kayariki played an important role,but their role has been shrinking as well as the use of incense at home,as electric mosquito repellent heaters have become widely used.
however,it is still appreciated and used for outdoor activities such as camp in summer.
although kayariki has been used less often as a practical item,it still has value as a summer feature;various kayariki with ornamental purpose such as kayaributa have been created and are used even today.
structure and feature
kayariki is a device for burning mosquito repellent sticks,and it needs to secure stable burning of such sticks.
for that reason,many kayariki are with a structure enabling provision of sufficient oxygen,and kayariki fix only the end of a repellent stick in kayariki to keep the other part of the repellent stick from contacting with the main unit of kayariki.
if the burning part of a repellent stick is in contact with ceramic with high specific heat capacity or metal with high heat conductivity,the heat required for burning would transfer to the contacted part,resulting in burning out.
as an exception,kayariki using glass fiber with low heat conductivity would not cause such trouble to a repellent stick even if the ignited part is in contact with the main unit of the kayariki.
to take advantage of this property,a portable kayariki that can be used on a slope or in a place with vibrations is available;clipping an ignited repellent stick by glass fiber nets on both sides.
a portable kayariki for outdoor activities has claps for hanging kayariki from a belt or etc.
in addition,a repellent stick of kayariki is clipped by the internal side of the kayariki,and the kayariki is in a net-like cover on the external sides,so that it would not be too hot when it is hung in use.
