ikenobo
ikenobo is iemoto(the head family of a school)of kado(flower arrangement)in japan.
the name refers to the honbo(a priest's main living quarter)among minor temples in choho-ji temple on mt.shiun(a temple of tendai sect in nakagyo-ku ward,kyoto city,also known as rokkakudo);a priest in ikenobo has managed it for generation as regent of rokkakudo,the main hall of choho-ji temple.
ikenobo,the honbo,was named referring to a pond(ike)where prince shotoku bathed.
ikenobo in kado
a priest in ikenobo was assigned to place flowers at the principle image,nyoirin kannon(the goddess of mercy)in the rokkakudo,as the chief priest of choho-ji temple.
from 1469 to 1486,the 12th of ikenobo,senkei ikenobo,had a reputation as a tatebana(the traditional art of arranging flowers,literally meaning "making flowers stand")master,and from 1532 to 1555,the 13th of ikenobo,seno ikenobo,was frequently invited to the imperial court to arrange flowers and he authored 'ikenobo seno kuden' (the famous manuscript about ikebana)to organize the theories and techniques of tatebana.
in the early edo period,senko ikenobo launched a fancy flower arrangement style particularly emphasizing colors,thought to be main school for the enshu school and the old school in the mid edo period.
there are many schools separated from the main school.
since senei,the 45th sosho(iemoto),ikenobo has actively worked hard endeavoring to increase overseas branches,influenced by globalization.
style
shoka(living flowers)
shoka shinputai(a new style of living flowers)
rikka style(standing flowers)
rikka shinputai(a new style of standing flowers)
jiyuka(a free style of ikebana):the former moribana(flower arrangement in a built-up style)and nageire(free style flower arrangement in upright vases(without the use of needle point holders))were included in the jiyuka.
successive iemoto
omitted.
forty-second sosho,sensho ikenobo
forty-third sosho,senkei ikenobo
forty-forth sosho,seni ikenobo
forty-fifth sosho,senei ikenobo(current iemoto)
forty-sixth sosho,yuki ikenobo(next generation iemoto and the first female ikenobo iemoto)
