kado
kado is a type of ikebana,an art of combining plants such as flowers and trees,with the aspect of geido(accomplishments).
it originated in japan,and is spreading around the world.
kado(華道)is also written in kanji(chinese characters)as '花道' (the way of flowers),and call as ikebana.
however, 'kado' places more emphasis on the aspect of gudo(seeking for the teachings of buddha)than 'ikebana.'
a different types of flowers are arranged in a style differs among various schools.
for example,while many schools set the rule that the object is viewed from the front,other schools try to represent a three-dimensional space in two dimensions.
this mode of representation parallels in japanese art.
in western floral decoration,flowers are arranged to create a unified form when viewed from any of three dimensions.
also,ikebana and kado of japan is distinctively different from the concept of flower arrangement in the western countries,in that not only colorful flowers,but also all plants such as leaves and moss,as well as beautiful expressions of foliage and tree trunks,are collectively called 'hana' (flower)and are appreciated.
background of kado
a widely-accepted theory is that kado originated from floral offerings being presented at a buddhist alter,together with the introduction and development of buddhism.
however,there is also a study that points out the trend of ancient animism in the act of reconstructing the botanical material,which has been collected,in a space under the control of human intellect.
it is not surprising that a type of mystery was seen in plants,differing from animals,in that they recharged themselves with fresh vitality if they were treated appropriately even after they were cut down.
this notion parallels in tree worship;maybe it was an attempt to control a mystic power seen as beyond human control,comprehensively in a vase.
today, 'kado' often refers to flower arrangement that prevailed in the bunka-bunsei era during the late edo period.
history of admiring arranged flowers
the custom of admiring cut flowers placed in a vase like a bud vase,extends back to the heian period,and traces can be found in literature such as "makura no soshi" (the pillow book).
existing containers were used at first,and special vases were created later.
kado was established during the mid muromachi period by monks of choho-ji temple in kyoto.
since these monks resided on the banks of ponds for generations,they were called 'ikenobo' (literally "monks of ponds"),which later became the name of the school.
the style called立花(tachibana)(also written as '立華' (rikka),literally,standing flowers)was perfected during the mid edo period by iemoto(head family of a school),soke(originator),and the like.
later during the mid and late edo period,the art,which had until then been enjoyed solely by the upper class or the samurai class,became popular among the common people as shoka(also known as seika(a more free style compared to tachibana)).
many masters in techniques appeared especially from schools such as misho school group,koryu(traditional school)group,and enshu group,and this led to further separation into many other schools.
from the end of the edo period until the early meiji period,kado and ikebana was introduced to the west as a result of the worldwide nippon(japanese)culture boom,and this had an influence on european floral decoration as a technique of vertical arrangement.
in japan,the flower shape eventually developed with the trends of the times;various styles such as nageire-bana(literally "throwing in flowers")and mori-bana(literally "inserting flowers")were created.
after the edo period,ikenobo branched into many other schools.
as of march 2005,the 392 schools are registered in the nihon ikebana geijutsu kyokai(japan ikebana association).
major schools of kado
in the order of the japanese alphabet
ikenobo:the name is taken after the originator,senkei ikenobo,who was a monk of rokkakudo ikenobo(ikenobo of rokkaku-do hall).
ikebana-kyokaden
ohara school
kado enshu:the founder was kobori enshu,a multi-artist and chajin(master of the tea ceremony)during the late edo period.
major artists in ikebana
junichi kakizaki
shogo kariyazaki
yukio nakagawa
kosaku matsuda
