kyoto shimbun(a newspaper based in kyoto,japan)
kyoto shimbun is a local newspaper published mainly in kyoto and shiga prefectures.
summary
with its headquarters in otsu city as well as in kyoto city,kyoto shimbun has become established as the most-read newspaper in both kyoto and shiga prefectures.
it assumes a character of a quasi-block newspaper.
it publishes both morning and evening editions,and runs about 510,000 copies(for the morning edition in january 2004).
the tone of its articles is left-wing and reformist.
it carries a large number of articles on historical or cultural issues and on universities,due to the characteristics of kyoto which abounds in historical,cultural heritages and universities.
its editions are sold not only in kyoto and shiga prefectures but also in osaka prefecture(yodoyabashi station,temmabashi station and kuzuha station of the keihan main line,kiosks in whity umeda and a part of shimamoto-cho,mishima-gun)and nara prefecture(kiosks in takanohara station of the kintetsu kyoto line).
the distribution of newspapers and the sales of advertisements are conducted by 'kyoto shimbun com co.,ltd.' spun off from kyoto shimbun co.,ltd.,and printing of newspapers is conducted by 'the kyoto shimbun printing co.,ltd.'
the front-page column is titled 'bongo'(plain words).
in shiga prefecture,the distribution area of kyoto shimbun overlaps that of chunichi shimbun,which is a block newspaper.
while chunichi shimbun has a large share in the east of the prefecture including hikone city,kyoto shimbun is widely distributed in the west of the prefecture including otsu city.
history
1879:kotetsu hamaoka established a corporation named 'shoho-kaisha.'
an economic newspaper named 'kyoto syoji jinpo' was launched in june.
it is the origin of kyoto shimbun.
it was renamed 'syoji jinpo' after two months of the launching.
1881: 'kyoto shinpo' was launched.
1882:kyoto shinpo was renamed 'kyoto shiga shinpo' and started to put headlines in its paper for the first time in kansai.
1884:kyoto shiga shinpo was renamed 'chugai denpo.'
1885: 'hinode shimbun' (sunrise newspaper)was issued as a sister newspaper of chugai denpo.
1892:chugai denpo ceased publication and only hinode shimbun remained.
1897:hinode shimbun was renamed 'kyoto hinode shimbun.'
1912: 'kyoto yukan shimbun' was launched.
1916:kyoto yukan shimbun was renamed 'kansai nichinichi shimbun' (kansai everyday newspaper).
1920:kansai nichinichi shimbun was renamed 'kyoto nichinichi shimbun' (kyoto everyday newspaper).
1931:kobe shimbun co.,ltd.,jiji shinpo,the osaka jiji shinpo news and kyoto nichinichi shimbun co.,ltd.merged into santo godo shimbun co.,ltd.
1933:kyoto nichinichi shimbun co.,ltd.separated from santo godo shimbun co.,ltd.
1942:due to the wartime press controls,kyoto nichinichi shimbun and kyoto hinode shimbun were merged together,and launched 'kyoto shimbun.'
1946:yukan kyoto(evening daily kyoto)was launched in may(and ceased publication in 1982).
1949:the new year's edition was printed in color,for the first time in the postwar period in kansai.
the kyoto shimbun acquired 'kyoto nichinichi shimbun,' an evening paper launched after the second world war,and renamed it 'evening edition,kyoto shimbun,' as one of its first measures for reviving the morning and evening editions system.
1951:launched the kyoto broadcasting system,a radio station.
1956:joined the operation of shiga nichinichi shimbun(and after its closing down in 1979,made it into the shiga headquarters).
1958:launched kansai telecasting corporation.
1982:achieved the multi-color printing system.
1983:completed the transition to the new printing plate processing system,and ended the 93 years history of lead plates.
1994:entered into the 'agreement for assistance to publishing newspapers in an emergency' with kobe shimbun co.,ltd.
when the main building of kobe shimbun co.,ltd.was completely destroyed by the great hanshin awaji earthquake on january 17,1995,the kyoto shimbun co.,ltd.produced and published the kobe shimbun news in accordance with the above-mentioned agreement.
1995:awarded the nihon shinbun kyokai prize(the japan newspaper publishers and editors association prize)for the joint project 'ikiru' (to live)with the kobe shimbun news.
started to put up the information on the internet.
2006:shifted to the group management for the purpose of strengthening its operating foundations.
the company was split into these three,the kyoto shimbun co.,ltd.(group control,editing and production),kyoto shimbun com corporation limited(sales of advertisements and distribution of newspapers)and the kyoto shimbun printing corporation limited(printing of newspapers).
2007:the kyoto shimbun co.,ltd.produced the evening edition of september 22 and the morning edition of september 23 of the kobe shimbun news,due to the machine failure on the part of kobe shimbun co.,ltd.
company history and commemorative books
the book of 90-year history of kyoto shimbun(edited by the history of kyoto shimbun editing committee)published on june 1,1969;575 pages.
the small book of the history of kyoto shimbun company limited(edited by the small book of the history of kyoto shimbun creating committee)published in march,1974;230 pages.
the book of 100-year history of kyoto shimbun(edited by the history of kyoto shimbun editing subcommittee)published in december,1979;661 pages.
the small book of 105-year history of kyoto shimbun(edited by the company history of kyoto shimbun editing committee)published in june,1984;203 pages.
the book of 110-year history of kyoto shimbun(edited by kyoto shimbun's 110th anniversary celebration executive committee,company history editing group meeting)published in october,1989;488 pages.
the small book of 115-year history of kyoto shimbun(edited by the small book of 115-year history of kyoto shimbun editing committee)published in october,1994;261 pages.
the book of 120-year history of kyoto shimbun(edited by kyoto shimbun's 120th anniversary celebration executive committee,company history editing group meeting)published in october,1999;303 pages.
headquarters
239 shoshoi-cho,karasuma-dori ebisugawa-agaru,nakagyo ward,kyoto city
relay to kyoto broadcasting system
kyoto shimbun relays the commentary on the contents of its evening editions to "kyoto shimbun kirari yukan," an evening program of the kyoto broadcasting system.
shiga headquarters
shiga press building,4-3-33 kyomachi,otsu city,shiga prefecture
branches
chuo ward,tokyo metropolis,osaka city and uji city
bureau
fukuchiyama city,kameoka city,muko city,hikone city and kusatsu city
branch offices
maizuru city,miyazu city,ayabe city,kyotango city,nantan city,kyotanabe city,kizugawa city,hikone city,nagahama city,omihachiman city,takashima city and nagoya city
others and communication department
institute
media institute
affiliated companies
fm-kyoto inc.(α-station)
fm shiga(e-radio)
kyoto information processing service co.,ltd.
kyoto sanga f.c.
kyoto broadcasting system company limited(kbs kyoto)
bbc-tv co..ltd.
rakusai cable vision
