engawa
engawa is a term used to refer to a wooden-floored corridor built along the outside of the house building,which is a structure unique to japanese traditional houses.
people can go up into the house by way of engawa directly from outside(from the garden,for example).
the function of engawa is similar to those of verandas or porches in the case of western architecture.
through shoji(translucent paper screen),although you cannot see clearly,you can still feel the presence of people or scenery on the other side of the shoji in the dim light.
in a similar manner,it is sometimes said that an ambiguous characteristic unique to japanese houses,in which intention to clearly partition spaces is weak,can also be found in engawa,which is not totally outside the building but not totally inside the building either.
structure
engawa fall into two classes:nure-en and kure-en.
nure-en is a simple engawa which is built under eaves and has no walls and no rain shutters.
normally,enzuka(short posts)are first disposed outside the building to stand up in a row,engamachi(horizontal member)is then disposed to extend on the enzuka,and en-ita(boards used to make the floor)are finally provided to extend between the edge of the house building and the engamachi.
nure-en,which are portable and can be installed easily,are also available.
because wood used for nure-en needs to be relatively durable to corrosion by water and weathering,new housing materials,such as plywood or veneer boards,are not suitable.
although insecticides and antiseptics can be applied,it is necessary to check if those chemicals can be applied to places in which people lead daily lives.
kure-en is engawa built by adding shitaya(small roof)and rain shutters outside the house building to make a space like a room between the interior and the exterior of the house.
in many cases,kure-en is not built on the base of the house building,but built on engeta(circular or rectangular cross-section horizontal member)extending on posts which are placed on tsukaishi(foundation stone)to stand up in accordance with the timber framework method.
under this structure,a floor-supporting structure is built,and flooring boards are placed longitudinally on the supporting structure.
as shutters,rain shutter doors and door pockets must be provided,or wood or metal sashes must be provided.
it is also possible to provide these two types of facilities together as a water-proof facility.
