ichizawa shinzaburo hanpu
ichizawa shinzaburo hanpu co.,ltd.is a manufacturer of bags made with cloth in higashiyama ward,kyoto city.
it is commonly called 'shinzabu.'
in 2006,all the craftsmen and employees became independent from ichizawa hanpu co.,ltd(ichizawa hanpu store)and established a new company.
in march in 2008,the store premises were relocated from the old premises(furumonzen kita,east of higashioji-dori street)to the present location.
products to make and sell
the leading products are bags made with thick cloth of cotton or hemp called hanpu(sailcloth).
they feature a highly practical design,various colors and excellent durability.
in the time of ichizawa hanpu,they were popular among young people as brandname products,and have remained very popular as bags to carry equipment for photography,mountain climbing,or geological research.
shinzaburo hanpu mainly handles two brands.
shinzaburohanpu
a hanpu bag made with plain sailcloth,continuing the tradition from the time of ichizawa hanpu.
there are standard handbags,backpacks of school bag style,and shoulder bags.
besides the traditional plain sailcloth,colors including sky blue,cherry pink,and grass green have been added.
shinzaburokaban(shinzaburo bag,with an originally created character using the words meaning cloth and wrap)
a new line using hemp and patterned sailcloth.
they have design such as calico patterns and 'astro boy.'
store information
their products can be bought only at the store at furumonzen kita,higashioji-dori street,higashiyama ward,kyoto city.
they currently don't have mail-order service.
in case of damage,they also do repairs.
business hours:
monday to saturday and national holiday/9:00 a.m.to 6:00 p.m.
sunday/closed(holiday sunday as well).
note that they have summer holidays,winter holidays and extra holidays.
access:
a short walk from the 'chionin-mae' bus stop,by number 206 bus from city bus d2 platform at jr kyoto station.
about 5 minute walk from kyoto city subway tozai line higashiyama station.
about 10 minute walk from either keihan sanjo station or gion-shijo station.
about a 15 minute walk from hankyu kawaramachi station.
background of the independence from ichizawa hanpu co.,ltd(ichizawa hanpu store)
