registered tangible folk cultural properties
registered tangible folk cultural properties are registered on the cultural property registry ledger by the minister of education,culture,sports,science and technology.
these tangible folk cultural properties are considered especially worthy of preservation and application.
when the law for the protection of cultural properties was revised in 2004,the cultural property registration system of the tangible cultural properties(architecture),established in 1996,was expanded and tangible folk cultural properties became subject to registry.
summary
the establishment of registration system and the background of expansion
based on the revision of the law for the protection of cultural properties in 1996,the cultural property registration system was established to complement the previous system;in order to protect a modern cultural property etc.,a property owner's autonomous protection is expected through the liberal protection measures based on reporting,instruction,suggestion and recommendation.
among tangible cultural properties,the registration system was introduced to architecture in advance as a tangible cultural property registry system.
tangible cultural properties other than architecture are in a difficult situation to survive because of abrupt changes in lifestyle,etc.
there are many cultural properties of modern times that especially require some measure of preservation and application.
although they are valued in a certain way,it is difficult to be designated by the conventional designation system at once since their evaluation is not established.
however,they may disappear if left alone.
therefore,registration system is also introduced to tangible folk cultural properties for an immediate protection measure.
candidates for registry
livelihood cultural properties,such as living wares and industrial commodities,which became popular since modern times,may be candidates for registry.
they may be a typical object that shows characteristics of japanese life and culture in a shape,a fabrication technique,etc.,or a systematical and comprehensive collection that has distinctive features regionally or technically.
because this registration system complements the designation system,registry candidates are restricted to tangible folk cultural properties that are neither important tangible folk cultural properties nor tangible folk cultural properties specified by a local public entity.
when a registered tangible folk cultural property is designated as tangible folk cultural property of a state or a local public entity,the registry as tangible folk cultural property is canceled.
however,when it is designated as tangible folk cultural property of a local public entity,the registry may not be canceled exceptionally provided that the registered tangible folk cultural property needs some measure for its preservation and application,and the owner agrees.
when the law for the protection of cultural properties was revised in 2004,art craftworks were added to the candidates for registered tangible folk cultural properties.
moreover,the registration system was introduced to monuments(historic sites,scenic spots and natural monuments)in order to complement the conventional designation system.
the monuments that are registered are called registered monuments.
criteria for registration
according to the "registered tangible folk cultural properties registration criteria",it shall meet one of the following criteria.
a typical object that shows characteristics of japanese life and culture in a shape,a fabrication technique,a usage etc.
a tangible folk cultural property whose purpose,details,etc.indicate the historical transition,the historical characteristic,the regional characteristic,the technical characteristic,the lifestyle characteristic or the vocational aspect.
an important tangible folk cultural property of foreign people or its collection that has a relationship with japanese life and culture.
the list of registered tangible folk cultural properties
the first registration was held on march 15,2006;wakasa agate and two other items were registered.
the fourth registration was held on march 11,2009.
the following twelve items have been registered by the same day.
hokkaido and tohoku regions
fishing tools of rikuzentakata:2045 items(rikuzentakata city museum,iwate prefecture)registration date:march 13,2008
production and regular vocation
sericulture tools of date region:2,530 items(date city,fukushima prefecture)registration date:march 13,2008
production and regular vocation
sericulture tools of shirasawa:331 items(shirasawa fureai culture hall,motomiya city,fukushima prefecture)registration date:march 13,2008
production and regular vocation
kanto region
sericulture and silk manufacturing tools of maebashi and relevant documents:633 items(silk memorial hall,maebashi city,gunma prefecture)registration date:march 13,2008
production and regular vocation
sayama tea:255 items(iruma city museum,saitama prefecture)registration date:march 7,2007
production and regular vocation
chubu region
wakasa agate,327 items(wakasa history and race resource center,fukui prefecture)registration date:march 15,2006
production and regular vocation
katsunuma wine(grape culture hall,koshu city,yamanashi prefecture)registration date:march 15,2006
production and regular vocation
fishing tools and shipbuilder tools of lake suwa:904 items(shimosuwa town,nagano prefecture)registration date:march 11,2009
production and regular vocation
chugoku region
unshu abacus:143 items(unshu abacus cooperative,shimane prefecture)registration date:march 15,2006
production and regular vocation
gobara shikki(lacquered ware):557 items(kawakami history and race resource center,maniwa,city,kayama prefecture)registration date:march 7,2007
production and regular vocation
shikoku region
kadotsuke(performance in front of the gate of houses)tools of awa kigu(wooden doll):163 items(awadekohakomawashi wo fukkatusurukai,tokushima prefecture)registration date:march 11,2009
traditional folk entertainment,entertainment and amusement
kyushu-okinawa region
taketomi-jima island:842 itsms(kihoin-shushukan,okinawa prefecture)registration date:march 7,2007
housing,food and clothing
