oni
oni is a japanese specter.
in folk tales and local religions it symbolizes something bad,frightening or strong.
accordingly,the word oni means 'strong' and 'bad.'
(explained also in oni(disambiguation))
oni in premodern and modern times
the image that the modern japanese generally associate with 'oni' is a big man with horns and curly hair on the head and fangs in the mouth,sharp claws on the fingers,wearing a tiger-skin fundoshi around the hips and carrying an iron bat with a spiny surface.
this stems from the fact that the direction between ushi(ox)and tora(tiger),which is northeast(ushitora),is called kimon(ogre gate),and an oni was supposed to have the horns and body of an ox,have the fangs and claws of a tiger and wear a tiger skin.
this image was established during the heian period.
incidentally,when the direction of ushitora is assigned to kimon,the counter directions of monkey(saru),pheasant(tori)and dog(inu)are assigned as guards,which sought to kill oni in the story of momotaro(peach boy),it seems to have some kind of meaning.
shuten-doji is supposed to have red hair and horns,with his beard,hair and eyebrows all connected,and to have hands and feet like the paws of a bear.
oni didn't originally have such a specific figure,and it was sometimes invisible as per its origin word 'onu,' as described below.
on rare occasions it appears as a beautiful person of the opposite sex and can seduce young men and women.
the present image of oni is mixed with rasetsu,of buddhism.
because oni appears in folk tales most often with gold or light brown hair and red skin,it is said that japanese people who had never seen foreigners mistook pirates from russia or other countries for monsters(as lightly pigmented skin turns red due to sunburn).
origin
the word 'oni' derives from onu,which originally meant invisibility and unworldly things.
by extension,it meant things transcending people's power;subsequently,the image of a humanoid bringing harm to people became well established in legend.
furthermore,it is integrated with the yin-yan and pure land philosophies,and it has been regarded as the gokusotsu ogre working under the ogre enma in hell.
oni in the literature of legend
hyakkiyako
hyakkiyako is a monster parade that has been said to march through the capital during the heian period.
"uji-shui monogatari(tales from the uji collection)" introduces a story in which an ascetic monk met hyakkiyako at ryusen-ji temple in chapter 17 of volume 1.
"konjaku monogatarishu(tales of times now past)," in volume 14,also introduces a story that a young man met hyakkiyako.
at the time,people were afraid that they would die or become sick if they saw a hyakkiyako,but in both of these stories faith saved the protagonists.
red ogre and blue ogre
volume 1 of "uji-shui monogatari" has a folklore of the old man with a wen,and the old man saw various oni,who are odd-looking,such as a red one,one with an eye or one without a mouth.
the four ogres of chikata fujiwara
they are four ogres which are said to have worked for chikata fujiwara.
see "the four ogres of chikata fujiwara."
rasetsu-koku
this is an island where only female oni live,as described in "konjaku monogatarishu."
later,it was believed to lie to the south or the east of japan.
see "rasetsu-koku."
oni in buddhism
a man who was greedy during his life is supposed to have fallen into the preta world and become a preta.
oni is supposed to play a role of gokusotsu ogre working for enma ogre in hell.
oni and human
while stories that oni takes the form of a human and attacks people go around,there are also stories that being full of hatred and jealousy will make a human change into oni.
as major examples,stories that a woman who changed into oni out of jealousy are introduced in 'kanawa' and 'momijigari(noh)' in noh.
hannya mask(female demon's mask)' is a typical example.
specific oni(or a human regarded as oni)
oni with names are mostly called 'doji.'
shuten-doji
ibaraki-doji
momiji legend(momiji)
kinojo(ura)
kurozuka(a hag in adachigahara)
suzuka-gozen
otakemaru
akuji-o/akuro-o
uji no hashihime
ryomen-sukuna
gozumezu
sokushitsuki
and so on.
places associated with oni
mount oe,where shuten-doji is said to have lived.
oe-cho,kyoto prefecture,at the foot of the mountain(now fukuchiyama city),is famous for promoting itself as 'oni's home.'
mount ibuki
the kizumi and sasuto mountains are the site of japan's oldest oni legend,which was handed down in hoki town,tottori prefecture.
kitakami city,iwate prefecture
nakatsu city,oita prefecture,where what appears to be a mummy of oni is found in juppozan daijoin.
akumikanbe-shinmeisha,a shinmei-jinja shrine in toyohashi city,aichi prefecture
a well-known strange festival,the oni festival--an officially designated significant intangible folk cultural asset--is held.
additionally,other oni myths have been handed down in various forms throughout japan.
oni' in china
in china,oni(guei)indicates a ghost,the spirit of a dead person and chinese religion(taoism).
it is closer to the japanese 'apparition' in terms of its implication.
because in china it is taboo to call upon oni directly,it is also euphemistically called good brothers.
this idea spread throughout japan so the death of a person became expressed as 'kiseki ni iru' (join the ranks of oni);this image mixed together with the original meaning has remained.
therefore,expressions with 'oni-' in chinese don't necessarily imply bravery.
in the japan army before the war,a particular general was called 'oni shogun' and he was proud of it as a military man;but in fact it was to make fun of his thin appearance,which explains this.
regarding the bunroku keicho no eki war,it is said that the army led by yoshihiro shimazu was called 'oni shimazu' and was feared by the ming army,but this 'oni' is used as an expression of contempt for a worthless or disgusting man instead of implying bravery.
from their xenophobia,they call westerners 'western oni,' and for the same reason the japanese who subsequently advanced are called 'orient oni.'
once,the chinese public called japanese prime minister 'koizumi ko-oni(koizumi,little demon),' which doesn't mean they were afraid of him but that they were making fun of him.
terms derived from oni
phenomenon:oni-bi(unidendifiable fireball floating in the air)
place name:oni-oshidashi,onigashima,onigajo,onigajoyama,oni-mura
design:oni-gawara(a type of roof ornamentation)
play:oni-gokko(tag)
creature:oni-yanma(largest kind of dragonfly in japan)
others:various
oni in creation
literature
oni are frequently depicted in fairy tales,and in most cases they are defeated by the main character.
issun boshi(one-inch boy)and momotaro are the major examples.
the motif of oni extermination has been seen since old times,and watanabe no tsuna is said to have exterminated lots of oni,including shuten-doji.
in the early modern period,some fairy tales including "naita akaoni(red ogre's tears)" (hirosuke hamada)and "onita-no-boshi(onita's hat)" (kimiko aman)have indicated that there are some oni,supposedly bad but still with tenderness of heart,besides the bad oni.
"momotaro"
"kobutori jisan(the old man with a wen)"
"naita akaoni" (hirosuke hamada)
"onita-no-boshi" (kimiko aman)
other than fairy tales,it is limited to fantasy or science fiction as literature,because it is an imaginary creature.
woman washing blue ogre's loincloth' 'under the blooming cherry trees' (ango sakaguchi)
"oni" (medium-length stories)(juko nishimura)
"shinikata(how to die)" (short story)(yasutaka tsutsui)
light novels
"fusatsuki(fusatsu ogre)" (kei shimojima)
comics
there are many cases in which oni appears as an oppressed,heteromorphic being.
works of go nagai
go nagai has featured oni for a key player of his works,as a symbol of cruel and illogical violence at times,and as an oppressed heteromorphic being at other times.
"oni-revolt in 2889-"
"shuten doji"
the "getter robo" tv series
the empire of ogres appears as the enemy.
they have those who have always been oni and those who were re-created from humans.
also,in the ova series "new getter robo," oni and ogre beasts in the shape of huge oni appear as mysterious enemies.
"onikiri maru(ogre slayer)"
"lum,urusei yatsura" (rumiko takahashi)
although 'lum,' an alien girl in the shape of oni,appears,she is only 'an alien girl in the shape of oni.'
"jigoku sensei nube(hell teacher nube)"
oni in the hell appear.
an oni is sealed in the main character's left hand,with which he exorcises spirits.
oni is a symbol of strength as well as evil.
"haruka naru toki no naka de(beyond the stream of time)"
those who are called oni and discriminated appear.
this may come from fear of the ancient japanese against foreigners,since they feature 'blond hair and blue eyes.'
"higurashi no naku koro ni(when cicadas cry)"
"shaman king"
"momogumi plus senki(peach class and war chronicle)"
live-action and sfx
"hyakuju sentai gaoranger(gao ranger fighters of all beasts squadron)"
enemies called org(which seems to come from "ogre," an english word for oni)appear.
they are mainly with concept like tsukumo-gami deity,and shuten,ura and rasetsu as bosses(highness duke)have famous oni names,shuten-doji,ura ogre and rasetsu,respectively.
"kamen rider hibiki(masked fighter hibiki)"
a human who has had hard training and gained the ability to transform himself is called oni.
in this series,oni is considered to be a good being.
"kamen rider den-o(masked fighter den-o)"
the imagine(monster),momotarosu possessed the main character and became a red ogre of "momotaro" from its image.
cartoon films
"ojarumaru,prince mackaroo"
"jigoku sensei nube"
"gag manga biyori(great day for gag comics)"
songs
"akaoni to aooni no tango(tango of red ogre and blue ogre)" (isao bito)
a song introduced in "minna no uta(children's songs)" on nhk(japan broadcasting corporation).
"onitaiji(oni extermination)" (chisato moritaka)
oni appeared on the stage in the "kokontozai-oni ga deruka ja ga deruka tour(all ages and countries,tour to see ogres or snakes)."
gesture
because oni is basically a scary thing and oni mostly has an angry face,as a means of expressing someone(the third person)who is angry or is in a bad mood,there exists a gesture to put both index fingers over the head resembling the horns of oni,for the purpose of giving a warning to others(without being noticed by the person in question)so as not to get in trouble with that person.
