kengyo(the highest title of the official ranks within the todo-za(the traditional guild for the blind))yaezaki
kengyo yaezaki(around 1776-october 7,1848)was a blind musician who was active during the early nineteenth century in kyoto(jiuta shamisen(traditional japanese shamisen music)player,so or koto(a long japanese zither with thirteen strings)player and composer).
biography
he was born around 1776.
he studied under kengyo urasaki.
he became a kengyo in 1815.
his ichina(a by-name for the blind belonging in todo-za),was mihoichi or ikinoichi.
he was known as a brilliant koto player and composed his own shamisen songs,but he was far more famous for playing lots of jiuta excellently,especially tegotomono(a form of japanese chamber music)songs.
around the bunka era,kengyo ichiura exercised his ingenuity in creating melodies differently from the shamisen melody of the original song when playing the koto for jiuta song(we call this "kaede shiki sokyoku" (koto music with accompanying melody style))and enhanced the ensemble effect.
his master kengyo urasaki took over and developed it,but yaezaki himself devised and refined it further and made kyoto-style tegotomono(a form of japanese chamber music)which kengyo matsuura or kengyo kikuoka had completed an ensemble music which had a higher musical value.
he was famous for being a good combination and rivalry with kengyo kikuoka,but he was forced to eat the leftovers of kikuoka who had assumed a kengyo earlier and bore a grudge against kikuoka,but when there was an ensemble with kikuoka he played the koto freely and beat kikuoka down and next time kikuoka improvised staggeringly blowing him out and at last they thawed and became good musical friends.
there are many great songs by their combination and even now they are played widely.
also,the work "yaegoromo" (an eight-fold garment)by koto ishikawa,where the shamisen parts were extremely difficult to play,was being forgotten and kengyo miyahara regretted this and contrived a plot,saying 'yaezaki is publicly honored for his koto virtuosity,but he's never played "yaegoromo" and is not a big deal.'
hearing this,yaezaki roused himself to play "yaegoromo" excellently and after that this song came to be widely played.
and he completed the koto part for the work "tama no utena" by kengyo matsuura in just one night.
the musical achievement of kengyo yaezaki was huge like this,but allegedly he was ignorant of money and led a life of honorable poverty and austerity and was supported by the money changer yorozuya as a patron in kyoto.
he died on september 11,1848.
his disciples included kengyo mitsuzaki who composed "godanginuda koto music," "akikaze no kyoku" (a song for the autumn wind), "nanakomachi" (seven komachi)and so on,kengyo matsuzaki who later followed the kyotoshimo school,koto(the title of the official ranks within the todo-za)kuzuhara in bingo province who was the originator of jiuta and sokyoku of the chugoku region style,shunei matsuzaka and so on who revised and improved "kokin gumi" (kokin group)by kengyo yoshizawa and tsuru who was a female and composed "obokogiku" (kiku,a virgin girl)and so on.
