makino geinosha
makino geinosha(established june 1946-dissolved october 1948)was a performing art office located in kyoto.
makino geinosha was known as being managed by shinzo makino,the third son of shozo makino,who founded makino productions before the war,and chikako miyagi,actress and shinzo's wife.
an affiliate of the company,makino eiga(film studio),was actually the same company;therefore,it will also be described herein.
brief history/summary
makino geinosha was established by shinzo makino and chikako miyagi in june 1946,following the end of world war ii.
geinosha promoted stage production by gekidan nadeshiko(nadeshiko theatrical company),that had been established by miyagi who returned to the theater after the war and its publishing section to publish 'makino' between october 1947-january 1948.
one of the up-and-coming actresses that performed there was kazuko moritaka,who acted under stage name of machiko sakurai,who was also a writer.
tetsunosuke tsukigata was an actor under exclusive contract and kyotaro namiki wrote scripts exclusively for the company.
in 1948,makino movies was established as an affiliate and the studio produced "sakura goten" (cherry palace)directed by shinzo and featured a cast headed by miyagi and other actresses,who used to be in the takarazuka revue,such as noboru kiritachi.
the company fell into debt and was dissolved in october 1948.
thereafter,in 1953,shinzo and miyagi divorced.
makino eiga
makino eiga was established as an affiliate of the company to expand its business.
the first film produced was "sakura goten" directed by shinzo makino,starred chikako miyagi with a screenplay by fuji yahiro.
shooting was supported by ko matsui who was involved in many films by utaemon ichikawa productions before the war.
matsui shot a total of 3 films produced by the company.
other actors and actresses featured in these productions included noboru kiritachi,who used to be in the takarazuka revue just as miyagi was,orie tsusaka,the second-year member of shochiku kageki dan(sskk),and singer tomiko hattori who also appeared in "oshidori utagassen" (a singing contest among couples:1937),which was directed by shozo's older brother masahiro makino before the war.
distribution of "sazaesan," produced in the same manner,was handled by shochiku;however,since its parent company,makino geinosha,dissolved in october 1948,makino eiga was also forced to close.
the last film, "tetsuro no bara" (roses on the railway),used machiko ashita,the star of moulin rouge shinjukuza;however,film rights were sold to toei after its dissolution.
a sequel, "sazaesan nodo jiman utagassen" (sazaesan,an amateur singing contest:1950)starred by tonko azumaya was shot at toyo studio with the same cast and staff,and distributed by daiei film company.
data
head office:chukyo ward,kyoto city
capital:175,000 yen
branch offices:in seven locations including tokyo,fukushima and otaru.
