tsujiura
tsujiura is a kind of fortune-telling seen in japan.
originally it was conducted by a fortune-teller standing at a tsuji(intersection)in the evening based on what passers-by talked.
the tsujiura appears in classic literature such as "manyoshu" (collection of ten thousand leaves).
there is a similar one called hashiura(bridge fortune-telling)which was done at the foot of a bridge.
it is also called yuke(evening fortune-telling)as it was done in the evening.
they thought the words of accidental passers-by as oracles of gods(shintoism).
they thought that the tsuji was where not only humans but also gods passed by and that the bridge was a border to the different world.
the modori-bashi bridge at ichijo-horikawa,kyoto city was a famous spot for hashiura.
the tsujiura still practiced at hyotanyama-inari shrine,higashi osaka city,osaka prefecture judges fortunes not based on the words of passers-by,but on his or her sex,dress,belongings,whether accompanied or not,and the direction which he or she took.
the person who wants to receive this service first draws omikuji(sacred lots)to pick up a number from one to three,then stands in front of torii(an archway to a shrine),where,for example,if the number is two,then he or she records the appearance and other things of the second passer-by.
on the base of the contents of what he or she recorded,the providence is sought by the guji(chief of those who serve a shrine,control festivals and general affairs).
in the edo period,children began to sell omikuji(sacred lots)(which is also a kind of fortune-telling)standing at a tsuji,and that was also called tsujiura.
this came into being independently from the tsujiura previously mentioned,and is not directly related to it.
furthermore,they started to make tsujiura-senbei rice cracker(from which fortune cookies were derived)in which they put omikuji similar to those sold for tsujiura,which was also called tsujiura.
in kanazawa city,ishikawa prefecture,there is a custom that the whole family enjoy colorful tsujiura-senbei as good lucky charms,and even now the scene of tsujiura production in japanese sweets shops is a special feature at the year end.
