mata kokoni kabuki no hanadashi
"mata kokoni kabuki no hanadashi" is a song of kiyomoto bushi(theatrical music).
it is commonly known as "sarutori."
lyrics:jisuke sakurada,music:saibe kiyomoto the first(the stage name of a shamisen player).
the number of kabuki buyo(kabuki dance)and classical japanese dance accompanied by the song above.
it is commonly known as "omatsuri" (festival).
choreographed by goroichi matsumoto,the first performance:mitsugoro bando(the third),performed at edo nakamura-za theater,in july 1826.
the first performance was a typical`sandangaeshi' style,consisting of three parts;scenery(scenery and customs),scene(sight),and rites and festivals.
its subject was sanno matsuri festival held at akaska(minato ward,tokyo),and the performance was composed of the first part;`the puppet of takenouchi no sukune on a float,' the middle part;`the fisherman setting a fishing net,' and the last part;`the dance of the head of the steeplejack who keeps watch at night.'
as the last part has been particularly popular since that time,the last part has been almost exclusively performed since then.
the song title, "sarutori" came from that the last part of the song begins with`sarutori no.' (at sanno matsuri festival,dashi[float]of`saru' [monkey]and`tori' [bird]are ahead of the parade).
it is characterized by the edomae(tokyo style)song full of the atmosphere of rites and festivals,and by dance with the lively and dramatic choreography,and the common name, "omatsuri," came from those.
in the basic pattern,the main character is a fireman with young people relating to him.
sometimes geisya,instead of young people,relate to a fireman and there are other patterns derived from the basic pattern,such as the story in which the main character is geisya with young people relating to her.
it is one of the popular numbers which are often performed even today.
improvisation
after a number of hayaku(unimportant role)appeared and started to dance,a head(chief)fireman in a cool happi coat(a workman's livery coat)came up on the stage.
when the head fireman became motionless,a call,`mattemashita' (have been waiting for you)is always heard from regular audience.
then the head fireman reply to the call saying`thank you for waiting for me,' and he resumed dancing.
unless the call,`mattemashita,' is not heard on the stage,the performance is not proceeded.
therefore,it is one of performances that require a call from the regular audience.
`thank you for waiting for me' is one of famous examples in which an improvised dialogue came to be adopted in the acting script.
