wafu(和風)
wafu
wafu is a term used to express things 'japanese.'
it is a term to represent inherent 'japanese' features and tastes.
wafu is a gentle wind.
according to wind force classification,wafu is a wind having a wind speed ranging from 5.5 to 7.9 m/s(13 to 18 mph).
wafu is a term used to represent inherent japanese features and tastes in the fields of art,such as music,painting,and architecture,and culture,such as food,shelter,and clothing.
this term is used at all times as compared to influences from abroad.
terms having a meaning similar to wafu include wayo,washiki, 'nihonshiki', 'wafu teisuto', 'nihon teisuto',etc.
the term wafu is sometimes accompanied by an adjective to express delicate differences,such as 'jun-wafu(pure wafu)' or 'modan-wafu(modern wafu).'
in the fields of calligraphy and temple architecture,the term 'wayo' is used more often than wafu.
about the term 'wa(和)'
the term 'wa' is itself a japanese term used to express a cultural concept.
when the chinese character '和' was introduced from china,it was originally a word used to express 'harmonization', 'peace',and 'balance.'
in terms of japanese philosophy and culture,it has been a leading concept that has many slightly different meanings.
even now,wa is considered to be the most important japanese value.
in addition, 'wa' represents japan herself and things japanese(for example, 'washoku' which means japanese style food)as well.
from this point of view,wa has been a highly emotional and/or political concept throughout the history of the 20th century.
comparative influences from abroad
when a foreign item is introduced into japan from abroad,exotic culture based on the item is established first.
then,it is often followed by a 'wafu'-ka(japanization)process through reflection and digestion.
styles and tastes under the influence of asian continent culture are called 'tofu(or karafu)', 'karayo',or 'tenjikuyo.'
styles and tastes under the influence of western culture are called as 'nanban', 'yofu',or 'seiyofu.'
examples of 'wafu' arts and culture
clothing:wafuku(japanese traditional clothing)
food:nihon-ryori(japanese traditional food)
shelter:washiki-kenchiku(japanese traditional architecture)and jinja-kenchiku(japanese traditional shrine architecture)
music and dancing/entertainment
gagaku,sarugaku,noh,kyogen,kabuki,nihonbuyo
tokiwazu,joruri
rakugo,kodan,rokyoku,manzai
painting
yamatoe,ukiyoe,nihonga
calligraphy
literature
stories,haiku,waka,imayo
traditional arts
sado,kado,kodo
martial arts
