gekkin
gekkin(chinese name:yueh-chin,yueqin;english name:moon guitar,moon-zither;and vietnamese name:{-d}{a`}n nguy{e^.}t)is a traditional musical instrument in china,japan and vietnam.
summary
it is a plucked string instrument of the lute family and has a round sound box and a short neck.
the number of strings differ depending on the period and country and it has typically two to four strings and,in the case of four strings,two courses of paired strings are strung.
for strings,silk yarn was used in the past and wire was also used later and,at present,nylon steel yarn is the main stream.
tuning method also differs depending on the period and country.
pressing the strings ten to twenty-four frets with finger,and the string is picked to make sound.
it has no hole for resonance.
when playing,the player sits on a chair and places the gekkin on the thigh and play keeping the sound chamber a little away from the player.
some gekkin are provided with a mechanism called narido in the sound chamber;in the narido,unstable metal parts are equipped and sound is made by swinging or hitting it.
history
the root is said to be ruanxian(4 or 5-stringed chinese lute)or ruan,but it is not clearly known.
the yi,a minority race,play a gekkin with a hexagonal sound chamber and a gekkin with a long neck.
gekkin is used for ming and xing-era chinese music(popularized in japan before the first sino-japanese war)in japan.
while a gekkin used for ming-era chinese music is "ruanxian" (4 or 5-stringed chinese lute)with a long neck,the "gekkin" used for xing-era chinese music is one with a round sound chamber.
these two instruments are completely different from each other.
as ming-era chinese music declined early under the pressure of xing-era chinese music,if they simply mention "gekkin," it means gekkin used for xing-era chinese music(refer to photographs)(for the difference in appearance between "ruanxian"(gekkin for ming-era chinese music)and gekkin for xing-era chinese music,refer to figures of "ming and xing-era musical instruments" on the page for xing-era chinese music.)
gekkin for xing-era chinese music were imported from china through nagasaki,but,later,it was manufactured in japan imitating the chinese instruments and it came to be used for performances of japanese folk melody other than xing-era chinese music.
it became popular from the edo period to the last days of the tokugawa shogunate and meiji period such that it was played by enka-shi(street performer of pop songs),hokai-ya(performer singing hokai-bushi-japanese traditional songs)in kadotsuke(performance in front of the gate of houses)and goze(blind female who sings or plays shamisen(three-stringed japanese banjo)as well.
in "ryoma ga iku" (ryoma goes)by ryotaro shiba,there is a description in which ryoma sakamoto's wife oryo plays(mostly because of this book,gekkin is well-known today).
however,after it was treated as a "musical instrument of the enemy" during the time of the sino-japanese war,the gekkin players decreased.
situations around this time were described in details by "kyubun nihonbashi katsukawa hanagiku no issho" (old story of the life of hanagiku katsukawa of nihonbashi)by shigure hasegawa and "nisshin senso ibun" (harada jukichi no yume)(another story of the sino-japanese war-jukichi harada's dream)by sakutaro ogiwara.
it also appeared in seishi yokomizo's detective story "jo-obachi" (queen bee).
in the latter half of the twentieth century,as gekkin with a long neck was introduced in "yokohama kaidashi kiko" (published serially in the comic magazine "gekkan afternoon"),the hero of which alpha hatsuseno played it,it began to be known by younger generation and it enjoyed a quiet boom.
however,the number of orthodox successors and the music of ming and xing-era chinese music has been decreasing.
difference from the gekkin made in modern china
with respect to gekkin distributed in japan now,there are two types:one type for xing-era chinese music as an antique;and the other is the current gekkin imported from the people's republic of china as new ones.
although they have the same name,they are,in fact,of two different types,because their material,shape,positions of the frets,way of stringing,and so on.
their tones quality is different,like the difference between the mandolin and the ukulele.
gekkin currently produced in the people's republic of china has experienced "improvement" in music reform of china.
the sound chamber has a shape of a perfect circle and it has three courses of a single nylon steel string that is a steel wire wrapped with nylon yarn,and the frets tuned in semitone.
an echo wire(hibikisen)is not equipped in the sound chamber.
in order to secure the sound volume,the tensile strength of the string is high and the neck and the body are made strong so that they can stand the high tensile strength.
on the other hand,gekkin for xing-era music has an oval(almost perfect circle)sound chamber and two courses of paired silk strings(today,nylon string is also used)and,usually,a metal echo wire is equipped in the sound chamber(every time,the musical instrument is played,the hibikisen in the sound chamber jingles because of vibration).
the sound is subtle and weak and the musical instrument itself is slender.
because the musical instrument may be damaged if a string for the gekkin of modern china is used for gekkin for xing-era music,care must be used.
