kyudojo(a training hall of archery)
"kyudojo" is a dojo(a training hall)to do kyudo(japanese art of archery)and kyujutsu(same as above).
kyudojos come in "kintekijo" (dojo for the regular close-range shooting)and "entekijo" (dojo for the long-distance shooting)types and they are designed with safety in mind because yumiya(bow and arrow)is used there.
they are often attached to public(prefectural,city-run or town-run)sports facilities.
summary of equipment
iba:a spot where an ite(an archer)draws a bow toward a mato(a target).
the direction of the referee's seat is called "waki shomen" and that of the mato is called "mato shomen."
in the waki shomen,there is also a kamiza(a seat of honor)where a kamidana(a household shinto altar),the japanese flag and so on are placed.
shai:a spot at 28 meters from the surface of the mato in case of kinteki(close-range mato).
honza:a spot a few paces away from the shai.
shinpanseki:a referee's seat is taken by a referee or a jury during a competition and so on.
yamichi and yatorimichi
yamichi:a large room where an arrow flies from iba to matoba(an area which houses a sand wall and the mato).
it is covered with turf for the purpose of guarding a fallen arrow and so on,but in some cases,gravel,dirt or artificial turf is used.
yatorimichi(a road to take up an arrow):a road provided at the side of the yamichi,and a person who goes to the matoba to take up an arrow passes it.
matoba
kinteki
azuchi:a sand wall to receive an arrow,at which the mato is set up with a kogushi(or gogushi)stick.
river sand or dirt is mainly used for azuchi.
river sand,mountain sand and sawn wood are mixed reasonably and heaped up to give a slope of about 50 degrees(incidentally,sand and so on containing salt is not preferred because it causes rust of the arrow).
materials other than dirt are used where dirt cannot be carried in.
azuchi receives an arrow which is shot from the dojo.
it serves as a cushion to guard an arrow against deforming when a flying arrow misses a mato.
when an arrow hits the mato,azuchi also serves in the same way as noted above because most arrows which hit the mato penetrate it and stick in the azuchi.
kantekijo:a room or a shed at the side of the azuchi.
it is used by a person who does kanteki(to check if an arrow hits the mato)to stay during a competition,and also used for storage of tools for maintaining the mato or the azuchi.
other equipment
a floodlight or some kind of illuminator:it is used at night to light up the yamichi and the matoba to make a mato and an arrow easier to recognize.
makiwara-shitsu:a room where a makiwara(a straw butt for kyudo)is placed permanently.
tatami mats(floor coverings made of tightly woven grass and straw)are set up behind the makiwara for fear an arrow might break a wall or window glass when it misses the makiwara.
safety equipment
if a flying arrow goes in a different direction from the mato,there is a risk of causing a serious accident due to its considerable energy.
therefore,safety equipment including the following is generally installed in the kyudojo.
arrow protection net' is installed to prevent an arrow from flying out of the iba,and 'acrylic board' and 'tempered glass' are installed for a kantekijo with window.
