matsuri
the japanese term "matsuri" (festival,written as祭or祭り)refers to ceremonies or shinto rituals worshipping shinreikon(the spirit of god).
it is also called sairei(rites and festivals)or saishi(religious service).
moreover,events associated with it is also called 'matsuri' in some cases.
however,events irrelevant to ceremonies worshipping divine spirits and so on are sometimes called 'matsuri' at present.
summary
english-speaking countries
carnival
this refers to a festival held as carnival during that period.
this festival is held in various styles around the world.
festival
this refers to other religious festivals and commercial events.
including untraditional ones,festivals are held in various styles around the world.
as a concept and japanese vocabulary,the term 'event' is close.
japanese ancient matsuri has a long history and is traditional,and when japanese matsuri is introduced in english,the term 'festival' is used as a translated word.
japan
the ancient word, 'matsuri' or 'matsuru' (both means worship)in japanese,came first,and thereafter,due to inflow of chinese characters,characters such as '祭り,' '奉り' (dedication), '祀り' (worship), '政り' (ruling), '纏り' (organizing)and so on were allocated.
at present,it is said that the japanese terms 'matsuri' (祭りand祀り,meaning worship)have the same meaning,and 'matsuri' (祀りand奉り,meaning dedication)have the same meaning.
however,since the meanings of these terms were divided in accordance with the origin from chinese characters,each meaning is described in the following.
the japanese term 'matsuri' (祀り)refers to a prayer for gods and mikoto(personal god),or its ceremony.
this is because a worship leads to a prayer,and a worship refers to 'a prayer' or 'fortune-telling as a result of communication with a god' which is conducted by shinto priesthood or a person subject to it(such as fukuotoko[the luckiest man],fukumusume[good fortune girls],or arrow picker of yumiya[bow and arrow]),and is so called a worship as an essence of 'shrine shinto.'
this matsuri refers to miko no mai(shrine maidens dancing)such as kagura(sacred music and dancing performed at shrines)and so on,or acrobatics and shishimai(lion dance)such as daikagura(street performances of a lion dance and jugglery)and so on,and a festival in honor of ebisu and so on is popularized broadly.
it also originated from japanese folk beliefs such as the ancient shinto and so on,and in ancient times,it was called kannagi referring to prayer 'so as to prevent spirits or deity dwelling there from becoming violent gods.'
such prayer led to an establishment of doso-jin(a god who prevents evil spirits from coming),jizo(guardian deity of children),hokora(a small shrine)or mound as a memorial tower,or to praying for daily gratitude with one's palms together,and it is the same to offer a prayer and make a wish at shrines of shrine shinto.
the japanese term 'matsuri' (祭り)refers to anything consoling deities,spirits,souls and departed souls(comforting the sprit).
in the meaning of chinese character,the term 'matsuri' (祭)refers to a funeral ceremony in the countries which use chinese characters,and in present-day japan,the term 'matsuri' (祭り)has a meaning in contradiction to that in china,but,when focusing on the comfort,this term has the same meaning in essentials.
as an ancestor worship,one of the essences of ancient shinto,which is passed down to the present day through syncretization with buddhism(syncretization of shinto with buddhism),the obon festival(a festival of the dead or buddhist all souls' day)is named(as a pure buddhist event,the urabon festival[a festival of the dead or buddhist all souls' day]worshiping the buddha is held in the same period),and a dictionary explains that it is a festival for ancestor worship.
matsuri called whaling festival are held all over japan in order to comfort whales dying by whale piking(whaling).
the japanese term 'matsuri' (奉り)is also pronounced as tatematsuru in japanese.
this term also means presentation,to present,to respect and so on,and generally refers to acts conducted to humanized divinities(deities created in japan which had human portraits and humane minds)in the japanese mythology,the imperial court and court nobles.
this means that it is 'a matsuri' containing a spirit of modesty for 'mikoto' whose essence existed in the imperial household shinto although many of sai no kami(guardian deity)in the shrine shinto were humanized divinities.
its origin goes back to the ancient shinto worshipping the nature,and as described in umisachihiko and yamasachihiko of the japanese mythology,fish hooks(grains and fish hooks were categorized in the same concept in ancient times),bow and arrows were called sachi which referred to sacred things obtained by fishing and hunting(catches,tools and sacred weapons) 'offered' to a deity as altarage(seafood and mountain vegetables).
from ancient times,fishermen and hunters returned part of their catches to the land and the sea as a quota of deities when they obtained catches.
not only fishermen and hunters,but also those who make a living from agriculture,forestry,or fishery,as well as those engaged in present-day "sacred callings" such as the brewing of sake or soy products such as soy sauce return part of their "catch" at the 'omatsuri' (festivals)held in each of japan's regions.
in jichinsai(ground-breaking ceremony)and jotoshiki(the roof-raying ceremony),omiki(sacred wine or sake)or okome(sacred rice)is also returned to the ground.
according to the beliefs of ancient japanese society,which followed what is known as "ancient shinto," someone who conducted religious services("matsuri" in japanese)was essentially the same as someone who was engaged in politics(also "matsuri" in japanese);this was a case of what is called saisei itchi(the unity of shrine,temple and state;in other words,theocracy),and this led to politics occasionally being called matsurigoto(a word that can be used to refer both to government and worship)in japan.
it is said that in the ancient times,himiko who was also a shrine maiden or shaman conducting rites and festivals controlled the administration by prayer or fortune-telling.
in the heian period,the shinto priesthood,who adopted inyo(also referred as onmyo)gogyo shiso(yin-yang wu-zing idea)of taoism and obtained the idea of onmyodo(way of yin and yang;occult divination system based on the taoist theory of five elements)and the position of onmyoji(master of ying yang),controlled the administration with a strong power as a bureaucrat.
such unity of politics and religion was not limited to the central government,however;in the provinces,towns and villages of japan,festivals were held to determine whether the area in question could expect to enjoy good fortune or to conduct construction work so as to raise funds for 'autonomous matsurigoto' and,based on the results of the fortune telling,to determine when to start social infrastructure work and provide guidance for the administration.
ambiguity of matsuri(祭),and present
many matsuri(祭り)originated from the ancient shinto.
since it was called a primitive religion,shamanism,animism and so on,and the target of its belief extended to shinrabansho(all things in nature),it is difficult to define matsuri which is also the action.
it was also the essence of japanese culture to enjoy gods(many deities such as guest deities,tsukumogami[divine spirit that resided in an extremely old tool or creature],and so on),mikoto,spirit,deities,departed soul and soul without defining or discriminating against them.
for example,a grand sumo tournament was originally a matsuri for dedication as the imperial household shinto,and was also the shinto ritual.
however,due to lessened interest in the religion, 'being a matsuri as a shinto ritual or rite and festival' is sometimes forgotten like a grand sumo tournament,and only cheerful events associated with rites and festivals are sometimes recognized as 'matsuri,' and therefore,cheerful events which were originally held independently of rites and festivals were called 'matsuri' in some cases.
the participation of individuals in such ceremonies was called 'festival,' and a prayer for good luck charm such as jichinsai,doll's festival,setsubun(the traditional end of winter)and so on is equivalent to it even now.
at the time of rites and festivals are held,various things including altarage,acts and so on were presented to the divine spirit,and a ceremony was held.
its scale was big,and the whole of event held across the region is sometimes called 'matsuri.'
desired form of specific name of matsuri
since various kinds of 'matsuri' are held in various regions,it is difficult to tell that a matsuri in some region indicates which one in which region.
in this case,the matsuri is often called by combining the name of region where the matsuri is held,details of event held in the rite and festival,and name of attraction.
however,in some region where the matsuri is held,it is called by abbreviating its official name,and a simplified common name is sometimes used by attaching an honorary term or term of endearment such as 'xx san' (also referred as o-xx san)or 'xx sama' (also referred as o-xx sama)to the name of temple or shrine where the matsuri is held.
other meanings
fishing
omatsuri means to get your fishing line tangled with that of an angler near to you.
temaematsuri,however,means to get your fishing line tangled with itself,not with that of another angler.
having babies
this is an analogy referring to a sexual activity between a man and woman.
there was expressions likening a sexual activity between a man and woman to 'matsuri' in a phrase of joruri(dramatic narrative chanted to a shamisen accompaniment)and in a book of zappai(playful literature originating from haiku[a japanese poem in seventeen syllables having a 5-7-5 syllabic form and traditionally containing a reference to the seasons])(haiku collected in the streets)called yanagidaru(box-shaped,lacquered liquor cask)(written as柳樽and also as柳多留in chinese characters)in the edo period.
the ancient shinto also had a belief called having babies belief,and it is said that the sexual activity came to be called 'matsuri' because having babies was an occasion of birth of new ujiko(shrine parishioner).
the ancient shinto had a vision of world,tokoyo(written as常世in chinese characters,which means heaven)and utsushiyo(the actual world),and tokoyo referred to a sacred area or the kingdom of god.
according to one theory,the idea was that tokoyo referred to tokoyo(written as床世in chinese characters;床also means sexual activities),and the sexual activity was a sacred one conducted in the sacred area(or inviting people to the sacred area).
omatsuri sawagi
a idiom, 'omatsuri sawagi' (festivity),generated from a cheerful atmosphere of festival,is an expression of the states something cheerful,or hustle and bustle,kenkengakugaku(clamorous censure)and so on.
the following are its derivatives.
the term 'matsuri' (also referred as omatsuri)used as an internet slang refers to a situation that a certain thread is extraordinarily sensational in some electronic bulletin board,and a flow is faster than usual.
the term 'matsuri' as an internet slang has another meaning of blog flaming(terminology of the internet),and calumniation,crimination and criticism are often given to scandals and improper words by a certain organization or individual.
this is an act of malicious nuisance called internet bulling(to be picked on),or an exposure of uncertainty over or criticism of the society,and also refers to a situation that an expansion and enlargement of opinions or discussions conducted in various internet sites by routs who act in concert with it or follow it blindly,or people having own opinions,develop to the state called so-called 'matsuri' on the internet.
form of matsuri
primitive form
rites and festivals are held in various forms across the world,but,a primitive matsuri is considered to have been based on one belief.
more specifically,it was a gratitude or prayer for productiveness,and it was analyzed through a god for death and regeneration of life in "kinshihen" (the golden bough)(a study in magic and religion:wide-ranging,comparative study of mythology and religion)written by james frazer.
in an agrarian society,a harvest festival was an old one,but there were other festivals in the form of presenting animal sacrifices at the altar.
the above festivals showed beliefs through which the productivity were obtainable by a life.
according to an example stated in "kinshihen," there was a festival of making human-shaped bread or cookie(symbol of human body)using harvested cereals,and of dividing it,as one of very religious european customs before the christianity.
it can be pointed out that this was similar to the eucharist.
rites and festivals are also seen in the world religion such as christianity,buddhism and so on,but,from the viewpoint of greatly depending on ceremonies and conventions rather than creeds,it is possible to say that the element of matsuri was especially pronounced in the racial religion.
a race of hunters also has a ceremony for praying for good hunting by presenting caught animals(sending of bear and so on).
like easter under the christianity,and hari raya waisak held at the remains of borobudur,there are festivals based on the world religion such as christianity,buddhism and so on.
in addition,like halloween held by anglo-saxons in anglo-saxon countries,there are some festivals which are based on a belief before the world religion,or which are passed down in the form of syncretization in each place where the world religion was introduced.
festival in the christianity
festivals also exist in the christianity,and expressions of important festivals days such as christmas,easter and so on,and of priest,eucharist ceremony and so on,a concept and words of 'matsuri' are seen.
in the bible translated into japanese,a translation of 'matsuri' is given in both the old testament and the new testament.
however,the orally translated bible of the japan bible society has a description of 'matsuri' (祭)but the new testament jointly translated has a description of 'matsuri' (祭り).
the japan orthodox church,one of the members of orthodox church(greek orthodox church),never avoids singularly using the term 'matsuri' or 'omatsuri' in the everyday language and in various works.
as shown by the terms,matsuri and monoimi(to purify oneself by abstaining from certain foods),and a festival day and a holy day,a rhythm contrasting a joyful occasion(festival)with the time to get oneself ready for joyful occasion(monoimi)is incorporated in the tradition of orthodox church and is a standard of everyday life,and when this is explained,the term 'matsuri' and its concept are often used.
as representative examples,the easter which is the biggest festival of orthodox church,and omonoimi(eastern orthodox church)which refers to a period to get oneself ready for the easter are named.
a tradition of similar rhythm is not limited to the orthodox church,and is also seen in the western orthodox church(catholic church,anglican church and so on)in the forms of the easter,omonoimi and so on.
however,the term 'matsuri' tends not to be used often by itself as an everyday language in the list of most christian schools.
almost only the japan orthodox church has a strong tendency to use the term 'matsuri' singularly,excluding some exceptions.
japanese ancient matsuri
the shinto in ancient times,so-called ancient shinto,originally had elements of animism and shamanism,and was categorized into a racial religion before the world religion.
matsuri passed down today also include folk beliefs in the sense of originating from native's,and many of them are categorized as shinto-related's.
however,since a long time has passed after the introduction of taoism,buddhism and esoteric buddhism,some matsuri are influenced by the syncretization of shinto with buddhism and imported folkways.
the matsuri symbolizes a space of extraordinariness, 'hare and ke' (sacred-profane dichotomy),in the folklore.
a ceremony modeling the story of ama no iwato(cave of heaven)in the japanese mythology is known as the oldest one in japan.
the primitive 'matsuri' was held secretly at a secluded spot.
even today,a core ceremony is held by limited people in some matsuri.
(service by the shinto priest of ise-jingu shrine and so on,generally called hosan[support given to a temple or shrine]or hono[dedication].)
at present,many matsuri in the general sense are held under the initiative of shrines or temples,or by having settings in shrines or temples.
the purpose and meaning are diversified because some feasts are held for 'the productiveness of grain' for good harvests,and a prayer for good luck charm and prayer for warding off evil such as 'good catch and memorial service,' 'prosperous trade,' 'an attempt to secure protection from a plague,' 'state of perfect health,' 'safety of one's family,' 'peace and longevity,' 'harmonious marriage,' 'fertility and family prosperity,' 'ancestor worship,' 'abundance and joy to all people,' 'universal peace' and so on,some are held in appreciation for accomplishments of such prayers,some are held as a result of development of annual events such as sekku and so on,or some are held to console spirits of great people.
the time of holding and contents of events are of great variety depending on the purpose.
in spite of the same purpose,and festival for enshrined deity,a style or variety of religious service,or a tradition differs greatly according to a province or region in many cases.
in many cases,the purpose of matsuri departed from the interests of participants due to changes of the times,and details of events of some matsuri were forced to be changed due to changes in the social environment and so on.
as a result of those,many matsuri fell into the state of losing substance from the viewpoint of purpose as shown by an example that the holding of matsuri itself became a purpose.
therefore,in many cases,complete outsiders,viewers and concerned people called participants only have a recognition at a level of 'matsuri equaling to cheerful event' (omatsuri sawagi),and now is in the situation where it is almost far from clear to take days off for a feast compared with cases of taking days off for funeral service and so on.
generally,at the rites and festivals held at shrines,large floats used to carry taiko(drums)at festivals such as dashi(float),taiko-dai(dashi including a drum),decorative portable shrine and so on,including mikoshi(portable shrine carried in festivals)(carriage of deity).
these are sometimes regarded as an incarnation of ujigami(a guardian god or spirit of a particular place in the shinto religion)in some provinces,or parade with a role of outrider leading mikoshi,and joyous events are held along the street for the purpose of entertaining mikoshi.
in many matsuri,although there are exceptions due to a difference of tradition,shrine parishioners often participate in the rites and festivals by putting on an artful and beautiful costume,and makeup or heavy makeup,as chigo(beautifully dressed children parading at festivals),miko(a shrine maiden),performers of tekomai(float leading dance),dancers,performers of festival music,participants in the parade and so on.
although the secularity advances today,the matsuri still has a function of unifying a spirit of local residents whose interpersonal relation becomes poor due to urbanization.
by producing an extraordinary space in the ordinary daily life,people continued activities realizing the meaning.
the matsuri as shinto ritual basically has a bilateral character of solemn scene and joyous scene,and in the solemn scene,people are required to keep traditions and order more strictly than usual.
on the other hand,order disallowed in the daily life and acts beyond the bounds of common sense(naked except for one's loincloth,dressing as a woman by men and so on)are recognized to be allowed traditionally 'only during the matsuri' in many provinces,and therefore,the term 'omatsuri sawagi' referring to a joyous scene was derived.
as a matsuri influenced by buddhism and having a strong character of syncretization of shinto with buddhism,bon festival dance incorporating a native ancestor worship or nenbutsu-odori dance(a dance with an invocation to the buddha)with a magic of kotodama(soul or power of language)is named,and is conductive to urabon-e festival(a festival of the dead or buddhist all souls' day,around july or august 15,depending on local customs)syncretized.
in addition,dengaku(ritual music and dancing in shrines and temples),sarugaku(form of theater popular in japan during the 11th to 14th centuries)and so on which were developed from shinto rituals became the base to form later japanese medieval traditional performing arts such as noh and so on.
ancient greece
the eleusis esoterica and dionysia existed.
also refer to maenad(greek mythology).
indonesia
a large-scale funeral by toraja is known,and a relation with headhunting is pointed.
hari raya waisak at the remains of borobudur is also known.
other religious matsuri
festival under a specific theme
festivals under the theme of movie or industry(mandarin orange,tairyo[good catch]matsuri festival and so on)are held.
festivals held at specific areas in the city(e.g.,china town,motomachi,secondhand book fair at kanda jinbo-cho,asakusa samba carnival,yosakoi soran festival and so on),at cultural facilities(e.g.,bunkamura,art tower mito and so on),and at educational institutions(junior high schools,high schools,universities and so on)are named.
film festival
music festival
culture festival
university festival
thanksgiving festival
