kengyo(the highest title of the official ranks within the todo-za(the traditional guild for the blind))mitsuzaki
kengyo mitsuzaki(year of birth unknown,but estimated around 1853)was a blind musician who was active during the early nineteenth century in kyoto(jiuta shamisen(traditional japanese shamisen music)player,so or koto(a long japanese zither with thirteen strings)player and composer).
biography and the achievements in music
his year of birth is unknown.
he became a kengyo in 1821.
his ichina(a by-name for the blind belonging to todo-za)was naminoichi and later changed to tomikiichi.
he studied jiuta shamisen under kengyo ichizan and sokyoku(koto music)under kengyo yaezaki.
in those days,the composition of jiuta shamisen music and the finesse of performance had already been culminated by his senior associates.
meanwhile,he sought for various new ways,for example,he studied well shamisen kumiuta(song cycles accompanied by koto or shamisen),koto kumiuta(koto suites of songs)or danmono(most important type in shirabemono(the koto solo instrumental music))and incorporated them into his own works.
as he was a disciple of kengyo yaezaki,he was very good at koto,let alone shamisen and he arranged some of his own songs by playing the koto by himself.
it is said that mitsuzaki was the first to compose both shamisen parts and koto parts in one song.
furthermore in those days,the koto had developed as a sequel to the shamisen since the middle of the edo period and still had room for development.
he paid attention to this and composed music only for koto again,instead of shamisen that had no room to develop any more,which was very important and oriented the new direction of later traditional japanese music.
in particular,kengyo yoshizawa observed the spirit and composed "chidori no kyoku" (a song for plover)and so on,but in this song there are some parts which were revised by mitsuzaki's advice,who was asked to criticize it.
the style is elaborate,neat,intellective,elegant,stately and often needs virtuosity.
he incorporated the technique of the early edo period,composed "nanakomachi" (seven komachi)or "mitsuyama" by researching noh and one of his works called "godanginuda koto music" is extremely complicated,elaborate,high-low koto duet.
on the other hand, "akikaze no kyoku" (a song for the autumn wind),composed by researching the poem 'the song of everlasting sorrow' by bai juyi,was a work for koto and song by the compositional style of koto kumiuta(koto suites of songs)and danmono(most important type in shirabemono(the koto solo instrumental music))during the early edo period and for this he invented a new method of tuning koto called 'akikaze-joshi tuning' where he incorporated the mode of ming and xing-era chinese music(as popularized in japan before the first sino-japanese war)that had been popular in those days.
the daikan(local governor)in echizen province,ganmon makita,who highly appreciated his artistic quality,patronized him and supported his composition and the publication of books of traditional japanese music.
he was keen on the publication of his scores and published 'genkyoku taishinsho' which was an accurate score collection of shamisen music and 'sokyokuhifu' which was the score of "akikaze no kyoku" of his own composition.
also,the score of "godanginuda koto music" which mitsuzaki himself had reviewed still remained before the war,but was burnt during the war.
it is said that such an aggressive attitude like mitsuzaki aroused opposition from todo-za and he was expelled from kyoto,but it is no longer sure.
and in response to this,he is said to have expressed his disgust by composing the shamisen song "yube no kumo" (clouds in the evening)which could be an ensemble,in addition to his signature piece of koto kumiuta called "fuki" (japanese butterbur)which originally should be played only with koto.
koto(the title of the official ranks within the todo-za)kuzuhara from bigo province was one of his disciples(he also was kengyo yaezaki's disciple)and he became the originator of jiuta-sokyoku of the chugoku region style.
he died around 1853.
