fuji matsuri(a festival of japanese wisteria)
fuji matsuri is a festival being held in various regions in japan.
generally it is a festival being held in japanese wisteria-viewing spots,and it takes place at the best time to view the wisteria,from late april to early may.
hokkaido and tohoku region
osaki city,miyagi prefecture
a festival is held at a public gallery, 'odae no yakata' in osaki city,miyagi prefecture.
it is officially called, 'furukawa fuji matsuri.'
it is held on the third saturday of may.
kanto region
ashikaga city,tochigi prefecture
a festival is held at ashikaga flower park in ashikaga city,tochigi prefecture.
it takes place to coincide with "golden week" (early-may holiday season in japan).
during the festival,rapid trains, 'ashikaga fuji matsuri' run as the special trains.
hanyu city,saitama prefecture
a festival is held at daitenpaku-koen park in hanyu city,saitama prefecture.
it is officially called, 'daitenpaku fuji matsuri.'
it is held in early may.
kisai-machi,kitasaitama county,saitama prefecture
a festival is held at tamashiki-koen park in kisai-machi,kitasaitama county,saitama prefecture.
it is held in late april to early may.
there is a 400-year-old-great japanese wisteria tree which is also a symbol flower of the town,and the festival is held as the biggest touristic event.
koto ward,tokyo
a festival is held at kameidoten-jinja shrine in kameido,koto ward,tokyo.
choshi city,chiba prefecture
a festival is held at myofuku-ji temple,in choshi city,chiba prefecture.
it is held in early may.
chubu region
iwata city,shizuoka prefecture
a festival is held at toyoda-yuya memorial park in toyoda,iwata city,shizuoka prefecture.
it is officially called, 'yuya no nagafuji matsuri.'
it is held in late april to early may.
it derives from 'yuya' (one of the standard play)of noh.
konan city,aichi prefecture
a festival is held at mandara-ji temple,konan city,aichi prefecture.
it is officially called, 'konan fuji matsuri.'
it is held in late april to may 5.
many people from other cities and prefectures also visit the festival.
tsushima city,aichi prefecture
a festival held at tennogawa-koen park in tsushima city,aichi prefecture.
it is officially called, 'owari-tsushima fuji matsuri.'
it is held in late april to early may.
hashima city,gifu prefecture
a festival is held at takehana branch temple in hashima city,gifu prefecture.
it is officially called, 'mino-takehana matsuri and fuji matsuri.'
kansai region
fukuchiyama city,kyoto prefecture
a festival is held at 'sai no kami no fuji,' a viewing spot of japanese wisteria in fukuchiyama city(former oe town),kyoto prefecture.
it is officially called, 'sai no kami no fuji matsuri.'
it is held on the first sunday of may.
chugoku and shikoku region
wake-cho,wake county,okayama prefecture
a festival is held at fuji-koen park in wake-cho,wake county,okayama prefecture.
it is officially called, 'kiyomaro no sato fuji matsuri.'
it is held in late april to early may.
there are several hundreds of types of japanese wisterias in the park which was opened in 1985,and it is said to be japan's best festival in regard to its rich variety of the flowers.
kyusyu and okinawa region
kitakyushu city,fukuoka prefecture
a festival is held at kissho-ji temple(kitakyushu city)in yahatanishi ward,kitakyushu city,fukuoka prefecture.
it is officially called, 'kissho-ji fuji matsuri.'
it is held in late april.
chikushino city,fukuoka prefecture
a festival is held at buzo-ji temple in chikushino city,fukuoka prefecture.
it is held in late april.
ogori city,fukuoka prefecture
a festival is held at onakatomi-jinja shrine in ogori city,fukuoka prefecture.
it is officially called, 'shogun-fuji matsuri.'
it is held in late april to early may.
yanagawa city,fukuoka prefecture
a festival is held at nakayama kumano-jinja shrine in yanagawa city,fukuoka prefecture.
it is held in mid to late april.
kurogi-machi,yame county,fukuoka prefecture
a festival is held at susano-jinja shrine in kurogi-machi,yame county,fukuoka prefecture.
it is officially called, 'ofuji matsuri.'
it is held in late april to early may.
on the grounds of the shrine,there is a "kurogi no ofuji" (the great japanese wisteria in kurogi)which is designated as a natural monument.
