matsukaze
"松風" (matsukaze)literally means the wind blowing against the forest of pine trees.
within the context of japanese traditional literature and the arts,matsukaze was meant to describe a desolate,lonely scenery of a seashore.
in the field of waka poetry,(a traditional japanese poetry style)matsukaze was used as a pillow word,which means "waiting."
the following are the word "matsukaze" used in various occasions and cases in japan.
unless otherwise noted,the pronunciation of "松風" is "matsukaze."
examples found in japanese traditional literature and the arts
one of the chapter titles of the "tale of genji" with 54 chapters is matsukaze.
the 18th chapter
matsukaze(the tale of genji)
a popular name of ama divers(the professional divers to collect shellfish,pearls,etc.)resided in suma region of japan during heian period.
matsukaze or murasame(the rain falling over a village)
one of the titles of noh theatrical play
written and composed by kanami,reproduced by zeami
matsukaze(noh theatrical play)
the common name of joruri(a traditional japanese narrative music)and kabuki theatrical performances based on the theme of matsukaze in noh performance.
the name of japanese companies
shofu(chinese-style reading and pronunciation of松風)
shofu inc.--a manufacture of dentistry materials,located in higashiyama ward,kyoto city,kyoto prefecture.
shofu(kyoto prefecture)
the name of a naval vessel
matsukaze
the name of a destroyer in the imperial japanese navy
the 8th destroyer of kamikaze destroyer class(1st generation)
the 7th destroyer of kamikaze destroyer class(2nd generation)
matsukaze(a destroyer type naval vessel)
matsukaze(written in japanese alphabet rather than using chinese character for distinguishing this vessel from the former naval vessel)
a chiyokaze class patrol boat "matsukaze," belonging to japan coast guard.
it was completed in 1975 at sumida-gawa river shipyard.
the ship has a displacement of 24 tons.
the ship can make 18 knots.
a fireboat "matsukaze" belonging to fire defence headquarter of chiba city.
a governmental service boat matsukaze belonging to national sanatorium oshimaseishoen of ministry of health,labour and welfare.
matsukaze(vessel)
the name of trains in japan
matsukaze(noted in japanese alphabet)
it is a nick name of a special express operated by the former japanese national railways.
matsukaze(train)
west japan railway company currently operates a special express called "super matsukaze."
others
a type of japanese-style confectionery
miso matsukaze
there is a japanese-style sweets called matsukaze,known as the thinnest japanese traditional sweets produced by a company called shokan-ji maruho,which is located in kikuchi city,kumamoto prefecture.
a technical term of tea ceremony
it describes the sound of the water boiling up inside of a water kettle.
names of horses
the horse owned by toshimasu maeda(keiji maeda)
refer to the list of famous horses
the childhood name of shinzan
name of places
matsukaze-cho,suma ward,kobe city,hyogo prefecture
the name of the town is derived from a folklore of sisters called matsukaze and murasame.
name of a person
masaya matsukaze(actor,voice actor)
a word processing light-weight software for microsoft windows os developed by kanrikogaku kenkysho ltd..
a live performance of hitoshi matsumoto named "matsukaze 95," which was held in 1995,with the post-payment system.
the titles of japanese literature
one of the works of a poet/writer,tomoji ishizuka,published as "matsukaze" in 1942.
this work was nominated for the 15th akutagawa prize,and received the prize for shinzaburo iketani prize.
one of the works of a writer,kazuo ozaki released as "matsukaze" in 1971.
examples regarding fictional figures
name of fictional figures
one of the characters of tv animation, "vampire miyu," named "matsukaze."
the rival of the main character,reiha carries a puppet called matsukaze for ventriloquism,which were both played by a voice actress megumi ogata.
similar to the characters of other animation/manga works,dolce saito of "geneshaft," or rino rando and pucchan of "gokujo seitokai," ("best student council")the character and her companion puppet are played as dual-roles by a single voice actress,while the character and the puppet usually have wildly different voices and characters.
