ok
dashi is a float used in a procession during a festival.
it is often gorgeously decorated.
at some festivals,like the shinko-sai festival,floats are pulled around town in long processions.
dashi is also called "yama" which is described in kanji(chinese characters of japanese language)as "yama(literally,mountain)" or "yama plus kuruma(literally,vehicle)" and also in kokuji(native script,kana kanji made in japan)as yama with radical kuruma at left,and,more specifically,dashi or yama is called hikiyama,kakiyama,katsugiyama,yamaboko,hoko,yamagasa,saisha,mikuruma,yatai(used mainly in chubu region like nagano prefecture,hida region in gifu prefecture,and so on),and danjiri(used mainly in kansai region.)
the word "dashi" is said to have originated from festival pageants where they were removed from a shrine or other building to parade around town,or from higeko or yorishiro which is an object representing a divine spirit protruding from the body of dashi.
"dashi" refers to the whole "pageant" but often indicates a single hikiyama(pulled-type float)by adding kanji for kuruma(vehicle)to yama(mountain).
yama(original form of yama plus kuruma)
the term "yama" used here is equivalent to yorishiro(an object representative of a divine spirit)which is fabricated to imitate natural mountains,for use at a festival.
original form of yama plus kuruma
according to ancient folklore,gods were believed to have descended from heaven to yorishiro like mountains or rocks with trees on top,so people have set up funeral halls at the top or foot of the mountains to perform rituals.
today,these funeral halls are preserved as monuments of mountain worship,or as shrines belonging to the mountains that are considered "shintai(kami-body)."
one typical example is the omiwa-jinja shrine of mount miwayama,and even smaller shrines located at the foot of shintai mountains(mountains regarded as kami-body)that often maintain iwakura(dwelling place of a god on top,usually a large rock)or shinboku(sacred tree.)
along with expansion of villages,people began to perform rituals in provisional funeral halls set up in plain fields.
in such cases,people constructed yorishiro to welcome descending gods,and these funeral halls with yorishiro have developed into permanent structures like present shrines.
one of those yorishiro is the said "yama" which is made up in the image of real mountains and is called tsukuriyama(forged mountain)or kazariyama(mountain for decoration.)
in parallel with permanent yorishiro fixed inside shrines,these yama(imitation mountains)have been fabricated and used in festivals as temporary yorishiro to represent or reconfirm the descent of gods.
the first record of such yama was "aoba-yama(literally,mountain covered with green leaves)" written in the paragraph on emperor suinin in the "kojiki(records of ancient matters)," according to which satsumi kihi,patriarch of izumonokuni no miyatsuko,had built a mountain decorated with green leaves as a garden dedicated to ashihara no shikoo(okuninushi).
one notable yama used in a pageant for systemized festival,is the shirushinoyama(also called hyonoyama and shimeyama)which was pulled around in the onieno-matsuri festival held in november,833(the festival for the first ceremonial offering of rice by newly-enthroned emperor ninmyo)according to the "shoku-nihon-koki.(historical records published in 869,heian era.)"
because shirushinoyama had played a role as ido-shinza(mobile divine seat),it is now considered as the origin of current dashi.
when onieno-matsuri was suspended for some period in the past,the shirushinoyama was apparently abolished forever.
since then,many similar yama have appeared in private festivals,with various types including an altar-like one,but mostly yama-related mobile floats such as hikiyama(pulling type),kakiyama(shouldering type)and others,all of which are collectively called dashi and two kanjis of yama(mountain)plus kuruma(vehicle)are used.
in current festivals,fixed-type yama,called okiyama,are rarely used,while dashi(mobile-type yama)for moving around town are dominant.
dashi
the term "dashi" includes hikiyama(pulled-type float),kakiyama(shouldered-type float)and other types of floats,while okiyama(fixed-type float)may also be included in this category from the meaning of its kanji
the most popular dashi is hikiyama equipped with wheels,followed by kakiyama with long bars to shoulder.
as was mentioned in the beginning,there are many names applied to dashi,so it becomes necessary to be careful to discern the types of dashi correctly,since,on the one hand,the same kind of dashi have different names depending upon the region,but at the same time the same names are used for different types.
everywhere in japan,there exist many kinds of dashi,while increasing number of dashi have been elaborated in elegant taste.
although many yorishiro roles have decreased importance as a representative of a divine spirit,there are still some reminders of the roles of old yorishiro,such as beautifully attired little children or dolls on a float stage and other ornaments decorated as substitutes of yorishiro.
hikiyama(pulling-type float)
a huge hikiyama is pulled around the town,occupying the full width of town roads.
the scene of tsuji-mawashi(turning a float)around a narrow corner is spectacular.
sometimes,a float stage is used for performing kodomo-kabuki(japanese classical drama played by children.)
some hikiyama-type dashi have very elaborate mechanism,and their sizes range from the normal size of portable shrine to more than ten fold that,weighing a few tons.
among them,the biggest dashi in japan is said to be dekayama(literally,huge mountain)weighing about 20 tons,used at seihaku-sai festival in nanao city,ishikawa prefecture.
the appearance of such huge dashi could be attributed to more effective pulling methods making it possible to move such enormous objects,to the preference of yorishiro for taller,more attractive dashi,and contest among shrine parishioners to produce elegant dashi.
there are many different types of undercarriages for dashi,depending upon regions and districts,for example,wheels inside or outside the carriage,wooden or metal wheels of different sizes,with different structural designs for the frame of the carriage,etc.
dashi usually have four wheels,but some may have additional wheels.
hikiyama(pull-type dashi)seen at the otsu-matsuri festival held in otsu city,shiga prefecture,and the dashi used at ishidori-matsuri festival in northern mie prefecture,have three wheels,while the nirin yatai with two wheels are pulled in the central eastern part of totoumi province from morimachi,shizuoka prefecture and in iwata city,and dashi at the hamasaki gion yamagasa have six wheels.
accordingly,different types of undercarriages require different methods of handling.
ogi-gion festival once had a yama without wheels and it was moved by feeding numbers of logs,one after another,under the yama and moving the yama along on the rolling logs,but such a primitive method was abolished,and the yama is now equipped with regular wheels.
dashi are usually moved by human power,but some are equipped with engines and steering wheels which can be driven like an automobile.
others
in india,there is a religious belief that any one who is run over and killed by a divine float may be allowed to go to heaven.
jagannath
