ok
kyoto ramen is a generic name given to ramen sold and eaten in kyoto prefecture,japan(mainly in kyoto city and areas to its south)when it is mentioned in magazines and books.
kyo-style ramen,which is a style of ramen that has been created based on the image of kyoto,and kyoto-style ramen,which does not have its origins in kyoto,are two styles of ramen that share a similar name to kyoto ramen but are mainly sold and eaten in areas other than kyoto.
they are clearly distinct from the above-mentioned kyoto ramen.
facts about kyoto ramen
summary
kyoto ramen is usually heavily seasoned and served in large portions.
noodle
most stores use straight narrow square noodles(the daiichi-asahi main store uses 1.8mm-thick noodles,and most other ramen stores in kyoto use noodles which are the same thickness or thinner.in comparison,the shinpuku-saikan main store,which is a giant source of kyoto ramen,uses 2.0mm-thick noodles but currently very few kyoto ramen stores use noodles with this thickness),and cook them until relatively soft(allegedly because they more easily absorbe the soup).
noodles are not overly emphasized in due to the fact that enjoying the soup is strongly emphasized with ramen as well as other noodles,and a majority of well-established,long-established,and popular stores purchase noodles from noodle-making factories instead of making noodles in the store,a trend which is seldom seen in stores specializing in ramen in other prefectures.
ingredients
the basic ingredients are bean sprout,sungan(chinese bamboo),roasted pork fillet,and green onion,which is commonly called "moyashinacha."
however,these days some stores do not use bean sprouts.
as for green onions,a generous amount of leek from kujo which has a rather strong sweetness to it,and is a vegetable of kyoto,is arranged is placed on top.
however,recently many stores use other green onions most likely to cut costs.
furthermore,an increasing number of stores place a boiled egg seasoned in soy sauce,dried laver seaweed,and the like,presumably due to an influence by ramen from other prefectures.
soup
there are roughly three types of soup.
plain type.
clear soup based on pork bone and pork meat.
however,it is different from the 'plain type' in other areas than kyoto(normally,a plain type ramen means what is called 'chinese noodle' using a general chicken bone broth as served in a chinese restaurant or the like,or tokyo-style ramen using chicken broth+seafood broth).
among ramen stores in kyoto,shinpuku-saikan,which is a large source of kyoto ramen,employs this type of soup.
additionally,daiichi-asahi,ramen fuji,daiei,manbuku,and others belong to this type.
as described later,the term derives from "plain type" of tenka-ippin,but the "plain type" of tenka-ippin is not usually included in this category because it is based on the chicken bone broth(in kyoto,ramen which uses general chicken bone broth as served in chinese restaurants or the like is usually called 'chinese noodle,' which tends to be distinguished from general ramen).
soup made of soy sauce with backfat
chicken broth having a strong sweetness and topped with backfat.
it is believed to have originated in masutani.
hosokawa,miraitei,sugichiyo,and others belong to this type.
thick type.
thick white broth prepared by boiling chicken bone until melted.
while it is widely accepted that its origin was toyo in yamashina,which is already closed,the origin is not clear as there is another possibility that its origin lies in oike-ramen,which was a street stall near kyoto station(it is different from present oike-ramen samata).
meimon,goku,tentenyu,and others belong to this type.
the "thick type" of tenka-ippin is believed to have been developed from this type.
use of the terms of plain and thick type started with tenka-ippin,when they referred to the chicken bone broth based white broth as the "thick type" and the chicken bone broth based clear broth as the "plain type" on their menu.
nowadays,it is common in kyoto to call the clear broth the "plain type" and the white broth the "thick type," regardless of whether it is chicken bone broth or not.
however,its meaning is not concerete as many people still call the soy sauce with backfat type the "thick type."
while ingredients such as kelp(or chemical condiments)and vegetables are added as sub ingredients to all types of soup,very few stores use seafood broth.
this is due to the fact that the people of kyoto are especially sensitive to the fishy smell of seafood,and are not accustomed to eating seafood mainly because of their geographical conditions.
although soup is mainly season seasoned with soy sauce,an increasing number of stores also feature salt.
very few stores feature soy bean paste,which is popular in other areas(although soy bean paste ramen is available on menus in many stores in kyoto,but is often available as an extra).
this is most likely due to the fact that kyoto was never a so-called 'soy bean paste culture region.'
there are stores that serve different kinds of soup(hakata pork bone broth,tokyo soy sauce soup,with a few stores serving original ramen that does not belong to any category),but their numbers are small.
as described above,some stores feature the so-called 'chinese noodles' and use general chicken bone broth as served in a chinese restaurant or the like on their menu,in which case,unlike in other areas,the ramen is placed on a separate menu;very few stores feature the so-called 'chinese noodle.'
nevertheless,even in kyoto,most chinese restarants feature the so-called 'chinese noodle,' besides those stores that specialize in ramen.
seasoning
in addition to the typical pepper seasoning,ground red pepper,sesame,grated garlic,garlic chips,garlic pepper,ramen condiments,vinegar,bean paste with red pepper such as tobanchan,green chive pickles,and various types of kimchi are popular as seasonings.
most stores keep several of the above,and the variety of seasonings available may be considered one of the features of kyoto ramen.
others
as of march 2008,the average price of ramen is around 600 yen in kyoto.
it is said to be expensive if the price exceeds 650 yen.
however,due to a sharp rise in the price of wheat and the high price of crude oil,an increasing number of stores have raised ramen prices(a markup of about 50 yen in most stores).
due to the high density of competitors in area with a high concentration of customers and a "conservative tendency" (which can be rephrased as a "patronizing tendency" strongly seen not only in regular customers but also in floating customers),they are forced to either highlight their uniqueness or be competitive in terms of pricing.
for this reason,quite a number of ramen stores from other prefectures which penetrated kyoto failed,because they set price-points without conducting market research or were unable to retain regular customers,reinforcing the point that business is difficult despite the population of the area which includes a government-orginance-designated city(this is seen not only in the ramen business,but a wide range of articles and services as well).
major ramen stores
stores specializing in ramen are introduced below.
as for the popularity and line-up,information from 2008 is used as a reference.
chain stores
daiichi-asahi
established in 1953(it was originally a cheap restaurant, 'asahi restaurant.' in 1956 it started to specialize in ramen,and changed its name to the present 'daiichi-asahi').
a representative of the so-called plain type.
nevertheless,many people call it orthodox kyoto ramen.
the takakura rikkyo main store near kyoto station opens at 5:00 am and closes at 2:00 am.
it is not unusual for lines to occur not only during peak meal times,but also early in the morning or late at night.
at this moment,only the south-interchange store and kameoka store are directly-managed stores,the main store and joyo-terada store are financially independent stores of a directly-managed brand,while others are franchise stores(besides 'daiichi-asahi,' another brand called 'takabashi' is also owned,and directly managed separately).
accordingly,the main store and joyo-terada store are not included in the chain stores(therefore,strictly speaking,the main store should be the old main store,but 'daiichi-asahi' uses the name of the main store as it is to mean the first store.in the current system of chain stores,it is the south-interchange store that functions as the main store).
the quality varies among franchise stores,which is considered to be the reason why the reputation of 'daiichi-asahi' widely varies.
furthermore,due to its past,quite a number of stores use the name 'daiichi-asahi' without permission from the main store.
only stores officially allowed to use the name 'daiichi-asahi' are introduced in an official website of 'daiichi-asahi.'
shinpuku-saikan
established in 1938(originally a street stall.started buiness as a store in 1947).
shinpuku-saikan is one of the oldest ramen stores in kyoto,and is considered a progenitor of kyoto ramen.
it belongs to a considerably old group of existing ramen stores all over the country.
although they use a plain,clear soy sauce soup,the soup is dark in colar and fragrant with a unique bitterness(opinions often split over this taste)due to a boiled pork liquor which is added as a soy-sauce condiment.
however,quite contrary to its looks,its taste is quite plain.
the main store is next to the main store for 'daiichi-asahi' at takakura rikkyo,and also opens as early as 7:30 am.
it is not unusual to see a line in front of this store as well.
although there are branches outside of kyoto prefecture,the only directly-managed stores are the main and furitsu-idai-mae store.
tenka-ippin
established in 1971(originally a street stall.established as a store in 1974).
there are two types of ramen as described above,a 'thick type' which uses a thick soup prepared by boiling chicken and vegetables,and a 'plain type' which uses a clear chicken bone broth.
ten-ichi' usually specializes in the 'thick type.'
some people say the 'thick type' for 'ten-ichi' is more a unique dish rather than ramen,but it can be considered to be have evolved from the thick type of conventional kyoto ramen considering the historical background and the way in which the taste was formed.
wavy noodles were introduced recently,and now there are two options:the existing straight noodle or the wavy noodle.
they also provide 'added flavor,' a soy bean paste ramen which allows a customer to adjust the density by themselves.
the only one ramen store in kyoto which successfully expanded in japan(there is also a branch in hawaii).
with about 200 stores,tenka-ippin is one of the larger-scale ramen chain stores in the country.
a central kitchen system is employed.
the main store is located in the kita-shirakawa,sakyo ward.
yokozuna(ramen store)
established in 1971(originally a street stall.established as a store in 1977).
one of a few survivors of pork bone broth soy sauce ramen stores that were once popular in kyoto.
although it is called pork bone broth soy sauce,unlike hakata ramen(or nagahama ramen),it is considered a derivative of the thick type owing to its distinct sweet and thick soup which is mixed with chicken bone.
leek from kujo is placed in a huge plastic case(used to be a metallic colander)on a table,which is available on an all-you-can eat basis.
all stores have been renovated in the last few years.
the appearance of the stores is outstandingly bright and clean among ramen chain stores in kyoto,and mainly target women and families with children.
together with the renewal,the taste was slightly changed to be somewhat milder than before.
however,the change of taste was not welcomed by old fans,and opinions became divided(many women say it became easier to eat).
because the soup is sweet,many people season it with a complimentary 'flavored pepper' to suit their tastes.
the 'flavor pepper' is a seasoning similar to the so-called 'garlic pepper,' but it does not include any garlic.
most likely due to confusion,there is now a note saying 'please do not mind the smell because no garlic is used.'
although less prevalent than 'tenka-ippin' in terms of its coverage across japan,yokozuna is quite successful and has numerous chain stores spread across a wide area.
it is also the first ramen store in kyoto to have introduced the central kitchen system.
the kisshoin store is the first store and used to be the main store(currently,there is no specific store designated as the main store).
goku
goku uses a thick type soup.
all-you-can-eat leek from kujo is placed in a colander on a table.
a unique characteristic of this store is their insistence on serving ramen using pasta instead of chinese noodles,and ramen without any chemical condiments.
in october 2007,the main store lost control of management due to management trouble,and the management system virtually collapsed.
as of may 2008,only a few financially independent stores remain open.
ramen fuji
established in 1972.
produced by kondo noodle,which provides noodles to a wide range of ramen stores in the kyoto area.
in the past, 'daiichi-asahi' also used kondo's noodles,and these two had a very close relationship.
but close or not,the taste is similar to that of 'daiichi-asahi,' and uses a plain type soup.
the main store is located in karasuma kuzebashi,minami ward(kyoto city).
fuji is not very outstanding probably because it is similar to 'daiichi-asahi,' but the number of the stores is rather large,exceeding that of yokozuna or daiichi-asahi.
meimon
thick type.
meimon is of the school of 'toyo' (ramen store)at yamashina nishino(already closed).
it is said tha toyo started the tradition of placing leek from kujo in a colander on a table on an all you can eat basis.
at this time,each store runs their business independently,and therefore are not strictly considered to be chain stores(accordingly,there is no main store).
the first store was located at the site of 'toyo,' but is now closed.
mirai-tei
established in 1997.
many people believe mirai-tei came from shiga because the yasu store in shiga prefecture is the main and first store,but it originated in kyoto.
however,because the first real store(used to be in fukakusa)closed due to bad business,and its existence was removed from the official record.
although not well known,the founder is a disciple of 'hosokawa' (i.e.,third generation of 'masutani').
therefore,the soup is naturally made from soy sauce using backfat.
mirai-tei is now rapidly expanding,with more than 100 stores;while still less than tenka-ippin,its growth knows no limits.
takaraya
soy sauce with backfat type.
having a solid reputation for the taste of its roasted pork fillet,the roasted pork fillet in 'roasted fatty pork fillet noodle' (not the fatty part of pork)is recognized as being a delicacy(although the price is high).
takaraya joined a ramen theme park, 'kyoto-ramen-koji' in kyoto station building as a representative of kyoto.
due to complications during the start of its franchise,there is no virtual main store(basically,the store which used to be the main store withdrew from the chain).
the first store in the current system is the nishikoji-gojo store.
daiei
plain type(free of flavor enhancing additives,except for some in the soy sauce).
daiei is an offshoot of the shinpuku-saikan school.
however,its taste is rather closer to daiichi-asahi.
daiei was once prosperous with many stores,but later stopped franchising and the chain system collapsed(while there are many opionions on why this happened,those explanations will not be included here).
some stores are still open under the name of 'daiei,' but they have nothing to do with the old 'daiei' (although details here are omitted,this is because the founder of 'daiei' withdrew from the business).
existing 'daiei' stores today are on a stand-alone basis and are no longer a franchise(although the fudanotsuji store identifies itself as the main store,this is not strictly the case).
old franchises and many other stores(e.g., 'daiki' and its affiliated store, 'ramen shin')are still 'daiei' school,and there is no doubt that its influence cannot be disregarded when talking about the current situation of kyoto ramen.
ichijoji,sakyo ward
ichijoji,sakyo ward,surrounded by many colleges is regarded as the largest concentrated district of ramen stores in kansai,and is often introduced in magazines as a battleground of ramen stores in kyoto.
it is also called ramen route(however,stores are scattered about an intersection of higashioji-dori and kitaizumi-dori streets,and not located along a single street).
takayasu(ramen store)
established in 1999.
thick type.
their limited specialty,which is a fibrous meat ramen topped with a meat stew,is especially popular.
a huge curry flavor fried chicken,which is a side dish,is also very popular(remainders can be taken home).
it is one of the most popular ramen stores in kyoto now.
tentenyu
established in 1974.
allegedly,the first store that mixed chicken bone white broth with pork bone broth.
their roasted pork fillet has a good reputation.
thick type.
it is one of the most popular stores in kyoto now.
chinyu
it was originally a street stall in ichijoji.
although it is in its third generation now,the present owner only took over the store name and has nothing to do with the founder.
chinyu has many regular customers thanks to its low price and large volume.
soy sauce with backfat type.
tsuruhashi
established in 2001.
although roughly categorized as using the plain type of soup,tsuruhashi serves a unique well-seasoned soup using duck.
the owner was a french chef.
although the basic soup is a mixture of chicken bone and duck broth,the soup changes every day,and ingredients used in the soup of the day are displayed on a board in front of the store.
above all,the 100%duck broth which is served occasionally has a distinctive flavor,and is popular among its enthusiastic fans.
tsuruhashi uses no chemical condiments at all.
akihide
established in 2005.
akihide features a thick soup which is created through long hours of simmering pork and chicken bones.
due to too many temporary closings,some of the regular customers call the establishment to see if it is open before visiting it.
it is one of the most popular stores in kyoto now.
tenho
established in 1992.
tenho serves a unique kind of ramen topped with pork squares seasoned in soy and vegetable sauce,and is typical of non-kyoto ramen stores.
although it is famous for its pork ramen,super-spicy ramen(presently very spicy ramen,slightly spicy ramen,and the like)has a solid reputation among super-spicey lovers.
fried chicken at this store is topped with its original sauce,which is also very popular.
the store plays reggae music in the background,setting up an eccentric atmosphere.
store hours and days being rather irregular(it closes when the soup runs out or when business is slow;it often closes temporarily due to the owner's passion for motorbike races);it is notorious for annoying regular customers.
ramen-so talk your dream
established in 2006.
a descendant of ramen-jiro akabane(fujimaru)in tokyo,and the first in kyoto from this lineage.
it is one of the most popular stores in kyoto.
partly because there is no other store that serves jiro type ramen in kansai,many customers are from outside the prefecture.
temporarily closed now.
fushimi ward
fushimi ward is referred to as a ramen battleground in kyoto,along with ichijoji,sakyo ward.
manbuku
disciple of shinpuku-saikan.
plain type.
the main store is in fukakusa,with a branch in shimo-toba.
daichu
the noodle's hardness,seasoning of the soy sauce condiments,part of the roasted pork fillet,and the like can be customized,with toppings such as hot spring boiled eggs and napa cabbage kimchi being available free of charge.
thick type.
recently,the shop has started a new flavor created by adding seafood broth to the soup base as a original flavor.
daikoku ramen
popular for passing out 100-yen coupons in store,in addition to its very low prices.
thick type.
there is a branch in front of tofukuji station.
fried rice as a side dish is also very inexpensive,and is ordered by many a customer.
famous for using water sourced from gokonomiya-jinja shrine.
ichiban-boshi
a sister store is located in okazaki.
thick type.
shibazuke is included as a garnish,and helps to reset one's tastebuds after eating the ramen which has a rather heavy flavor to it.
ramen ginkaku
the store name derives from the fact that it used to be a street stall around ginkaku-ji temple.
thick type.
one of the most popular stores in kyoto,and often has people lined up.
fried rice is also available as a side dish,and is considered to be delicious.
shirusoba-taka
while it features rather a soup made of thick soy sauce with backfat,salt and thick white broth ramen are also popular.
taiyoken
features the soy sauce with backfat type of 'tasty ramen.'
its low price make it fairly popular in the local region.
salt ramen and chinese noodles called 'plain ramen' are also popular.
genya
serves ramen using sake lees.
popular among tourists,but not highly regarded by local people.
other areas
toryu
established in 2000.
its feature dish,toryu noodles,is characterized by a soup like potage which uses vegetables.
besides,tokyo type chinese noodles based on chicken bone broth is also popular.
toryu noodle is considered to be evolved from the thick soup type.
curly noodles are used,and is rare among ramen stores in kyoto.
one of the most popular stores in kyoto,it is rare for it not to have a string of people lining the store.
masutani
established in 1947 with a store on imadegawa-dori street in kita-shirakawa,sakyo ward.
the originator of soup made out of soy sauce and backfat in kyoto.
the tsubame-sanjo line ramen is older in terms of using a soup made out of soy sauce and backfat,but the relation between them is not known.
this store is also said to have invented garlic pepper.
it is known to have many repeat customers,and there is always a line of people.
with a branch located nearby,it is now easier to eat at masutani.
hosokawa
after training at masutani,the owner opened a store at nishioji hanayacho,nishi-iru.
soy sauce with backfat type.
moved to a store which is three-times larger around 2006.
there are branches in saiin and joyo.
pikkari shokudo
established in 2002.
a typical type of non-kyoto ramen store,it serves plain salt ramen using chicken bone broth.
sugichiyo
established in 1999.
soy sauce with backfat type.
one of the most popular stores in kyoto,there is always a line of people waiting to get in.
the line is especially long during lunch time,even during weekdays,most likely due to tourists.
fuka
established in 2001.
calling itself 'shinjuku ramen,' fuka serves a thick seafood type of salt ramen.
it is a typical non-kyoto ramen store.
marutake
it features a seafood broth type of soup topped with roasted and grilled pork fillet.
it is a typical non-kyoto ramen store.
ramen nippon-ichi
famous for a large helping of 'guts ramen.'
they serve 2.5 servings of noodles,topped with an incredible volume of ingredients.
if one finishes three bowls within 40 minutes,he/she is forever allowed to eat and drink there for free.
thick type.
menbaka ichidai
known for their green onion ramen with a heap of green onions poured with boiling oil.
it is often picked up by the mass media for the amazing site of flying droplets when the oil is poured,but its local reputation is not quite so high.
the soup itself is the plain type.
tanpopo
famous for a bowlful of ground red pepper which makes the bowl look entirely red.
it is not in fact as spicy as it looks.
soy sauce with backfat type.
iicho
established in 1998.
soy sauce with backfat type.
one of the most popular stores in kyoto,it is rare for it not to have a line of people waiting in front.
yonaki-ya
established in 1971.
plain type.
its dish of 'noodle with thin sliced meat,' is a limited item,and is so popular that it is often sold out immediately after the store opens.
one of the most popular stores in kyoto,it is rare for it not to have a line of people waiting in front.
miyoshi
serves hakata style(nagahama style)pork bone broth ramen(however,most people from kyushu say it is rather altered and not the traditional kind of hakata style pork bone broth ramen).
a typical non-kyoto ramen stores.
known for being open near a busy downtown street(kiyamachi)until early in the morning.
miyoshi has many repeat customers and is famous for having had gackt(a popular male singer)as a regular customer.
tengu
established in 2003.
ramen which is similar to that of 'sugichiyo,' as the chief placed in charge of the opening of 'sugichiyo' opened tengu independently,and some people say it is even better tasting than the current 'sugichiyo.'
accordingly,though the featured dish is a ramen which uses soup made out of soy sauce and backfat like 'sugichiyo,' unlike 'sugichiyo,' it features many different kinds of ramen,and its salt ramen is also popular.
muteppo
established in 1998(opened in nara.moved to kyoto in 2003).
features a 'pork bone broth ramen' which uses a very thick soup made out of boiling a huge amount of pork bones at high temperature,and is considered to be an evolved form of thick type of soup.
noodle hardness,the thickness of the condiments,and so on can be customized.
customers enjoy a variety of ramen including dishes offered for a limited time.
no chemical condiments are used.
although the current main store is located in an obscure area in the mountains of kizugawa city,many customers drive from far away areas.
there is always a line in the front and it is one of the most popular stores in kyoto.
there are stores in osaka and nara.
motomachi ramen
the store is located at aburanokoji,shimodachiuri.
characterized by its simple but very thick soy sauce type soup based on pork bone broth,with a healthy accent of green onion and bean sprout.
shigeru kishida,a vocalist for a rock band from kyoto,kururi,gave the store his highest praise,and his autograph and goods are displayed in the store.
a branch opened on hanayacho-dori street,ukyo ward in june 2007.
tokyo ramen
it is located close to kyoto university in sakyo ward.
it features the tokyo style of orthodox soy sauce ramen as the store name goes,but the price is as low as 400 yen,and the store is filled with students at lunch time.
the menu includes neither dumpling nor fried rice,but curry rice is available for some reason.
as the owner grows older,recent store hours and days have become slightly irregular.
local ramen
kyoto ramen' as local ramen
among some,including ramen lovers,kyoto ramen is recognized as a local ramen,and often introduced in feature magazine articles about ramen.
on the other hand,the visibility of kyoto ramen as a local ramen is still low among common people.
furthermore,the majority of residents in kyoto are not especially aware of the existence of 'kyoto ramen.'
it is considered because ramen is too much of a daily food for people in kyoto and as such has not been featured.
this is often observed with regards to takayama ramen,tsubame-sanjo ramen,and the like(for comparison,the word 'ramen' is not even used in takayama,and ramen is locally called 'soba').
setting aside the case of revitalizing the town depending on the local ramen,the 'ramen' that people always eat is recognized as just 'ramen' most of time.
as of march 2008,according to the itown page,there are about 500 stores specializing in ramen in kyoto prefecture,and there are more than 1,000 stores that serve ramen including stores not specializing in ramen(i.e.,chinese restaurants).
it is said that kyoto prefecture features the most ramen stores per capita among the 47 prefectures.
furthermore,most of ramen stores in kyoto have common formats(noodle and ingredients),which can be regarded as one category.
in fact,not a few local ramen have become famous without actual forms(like kobe ramen and naniwa ramen)or have already become a mere name(like sapporo ramen and hakodate ramen);compared with them, 'kyoto ramen' has an evident entity and satisfies requirements as the local ramen much more.
anincreasing number of recent magazines that introduce kyoto describe 'kyoto ramen' even when 'ramen' is not especially featured.
kyo-style ramen
kyo-style ramen is a bland ramen created based kyo kaiseki(kyoto's traditional local cuisine).
there are many stores which have opened a chain in areas except kyoto,leading to a misunderstanding that the ramen came from kyoto,when in reality they are seldom seen in kyoto city except for a few stores located in tourist traps.
this ramen uses a seafood and chicken bone broth soup suited for japanese taste,and was created by people from other prefectures based on their perception of kyoto,and is entirely different from ramen commonly eaten in kyoto.
it is often served in a course that mimics kyo kaiseki,followed by japanese style sweets(e.g.anmitsu)as a dessert.
kyoto-style ramen not derived from kyoto
with the increasing recognition of kyoto ramen,ramen stores have appeared that themselves kyoto ramen though they are not from kyoto,and cup ramens that call themselves kyoto ramen(there are also many cup ramens tied up with existing stores in kyoto).
yottekoya
a chain store established by eat-and(former osaka-osho)based on the concept of 'kyoto street-stall style ramen.'
unexpectedly many people misunderstood this and took it to mean that the ramen store derives from a street stall in kyoto.
although it may not be expanding nation-wide,it is nevertheless a successful chain that covers a wide area(there are also branches overseas).
however,for some reason,there is only one store located in kyoto,despite the fact that kyoto is supposed to be its origin;this is mostly likely due to the fact of its high entry levels(as of november 2007).
kyoto thick chicken soup-gyoretsu no dekiru mise no ramen(ramen noodles of a shop crowded with fans)series by nissin
cup noodles based on the concept of a thick type kyoto ramen soup.
