mikka gojoho(three-day rules)
mikka gojoho or gojoho mikka is a term used to refer to unwritten rules in kabuki world.
it includes the following.
mikka gojoho of the first day
for the first three days after the opening day,kyogen players must have speeches(kyogen players' duty).
from the fourth day on,actors must have speeches.
on the contrary,kyogen players become free from speeches after that.
in reality,however,it may be impossible in terms of the age.
kyogen writers themselves belong to a theater,but it was common for them to choose onadai(a top actor)from among the actors there and make him exclusively work for them by tipping much and giving him financial support.
the director,especially external one,is allowed to change directions by trial and error for three days when he is engaged on a new work or a revival(directors' right).
he must fix his directions on the third day.
the reason of this custom is that practically the first few days were for open rehearsals in the kabuki performances.
naturally,the admission was cheaper than usual.
part of the performances was sometimes omitted.
it was when the imperial theater opened that they employed the usual performance routine from the first day.
all the actors,musicians and backstage staff must stay in their dressing rooms all day long.
they are usually allowed to leave after performing their part and taking a bath.
mikka gojoho of performance cancellation
performance substitution due to the unexpected accident cannot be shortened less than three days.
there are various reasons for performance cancellation such as illness,accident,arrest for driving under the influence of alcohol,filming for other company and so on.
although the reason of cancellation is dissolved in one day,the initial actor cannot perform for three days(suspension of the right).
the substitute can be on duty for three days(right).
the producer is not supposed to touch the initial actor's pay.
in return,the initial actor must give a suitable consideration to the substitute.
if the substitute consents,the initial actor can come back within three days.
the substitute must throw away his own style,and perform in exactly the same style with the initial actor.
in other words,direction is never changed.
if the cancellation extends longer than three days,the initial actor is to be off.
if the initial actor's cancellation extends longer than three days,he is to be off till the end of the month.
although he is recovered from the illness,for example,he cannot come back.
however,if the substitute consents,he can come back as with the case mentioned above.
