inji(slinging techniques)
inji is a japanese combat technology that kills and wounds the objects by slinging,or an event.
inji(印地)is also written as '印字.'
in the slinging techniques,those who mastered the skill were called "inji uchi" or "inji zukai" (a slinger).
summery
inji had different styles such as slinging by hand,operating a western style sling,utilizing japanese towels in place of the sling,or throwing heavy stuff like putting a shot.
stones
a flat and round stone of about 9cm with its edges cut is used.
techniques
slinging by hand itself is a threat as shown in a baseball pitcher.
when operating a sling similar to the one of western countries,the cloth with cords attached to the both ends is used.
one end of the cord is tied to the wrist and another end is hold in the hand.
in the center of the cloth,a handy stone is placed and wrapped,and it is rotated above the head(or at the side of the body,as another technique).
when it is released from the hand with full speed,the accelerated stone shoots out like a bullet.
the sling tied up to the wrist remains in hand,and another stone can be placed immediately to be thrown.
as a simple sling,a japanese towel was substituted and often used in affrays or resistances besides in the battlefields,as shown in the historical record.
besides slinging,there are other techniques such as the fundo jutsu(use of the weight[fundo]to attack an opponent's body or weapon)for the short distance,throwing many prepared stones tied up with strings one after another,and throwing a big stuff like a modern hammer throwing style.
usage
in the battle,the slinging was frequently used because it was low-cost(stones were always available at the riverside),the slings operated by skilled soldiers carried stones further than allows did,and the stone could damage the body even through the armor.
according to the recent research,next to a bow and allow and a firearm,the sling was considered to be frequently used.
in recent times,explosive or oil pots seems to be thrown in place of a stone.
(such as in anpo toso[japanese national campaign against the security treaty],it is said that the radicals used it for fire bottles,throwing bombs and smoke bombs).
in the modern castles,the stones for inji were stocked in the castle ground.
inji as an event
an event held on may 5,in which children are divided into two groups and throw stones each other like wars in the sengoku period(period of warring states)is also called "inji."
some time ago,adults joined this festival but accidental injury or death were repeated.
in modern age,it became a play for children and now it died out.
it is famous as a name of the "stone battle."
