kishi saionji
kishi saionji(1303-november 19,1333)was a japanese imperial family member during the late kamakura period.
she was the chugu(the empress)of the ninety-sixth emperor godaigo.
her nyoin go title(nyoin go-a title of respect given to close female relatives of the emperor or a woman of comparable standing)was initially named reiseimonin from the northern court,but later on it was abolished,after she died her title was renamed gokyogokuin from the southern court.
genealogy
she was the third daughter of dajo daijin(grand minister of state),sanekane saionji.
her eldest brother was sadaijin(minister of the left),kinhira saionji,her forth older brother was the first family head of the kikutei family,dajo daijin,kanesue imadegawa,the oldest sister was emperor fushimi's chugu,shoshi saionji(eifukumonin),second older sister was emperor kameyama's empress,eishi saionji(shokunmonin).
background
she married crown prince,imperial prince takaharu(later called emperor godaigo)in 1313.
according to "masukagami" (a japanese historical epic about the kamakura period),it was said this marriage was a political marriage.
after imperial prince takaharu succeeded the throne in february 1318,she was given title to become nyogo(imperial consort)in april,then was officially appointed to chugu in august 1319.
however in 1331,after the genko incident,emperor godaigo was caught and was sentenced to deportation to the oki islands in march 1332,kishi was given nyoin go title by emperor kogon of the newly established northern court government in may,she was named reizeimonin,and entered into the priesthood in august in the same year.
in june 1333,after emperor godaigo came back to the palace,kishi lost her title of reizeimonin and became chugu,soon after that she became empress dowager,however she died not too long after this,on november 19,1333.
she was thirty one years old.
she was given the title of gokyogokuin on the day of her death.
after kishi died,emperor gofushimi's first princess,imperial princess junshi became emperor godaigo's chugu.
her princes and princesses.
kishi gave birth to her second princess,imperial princess kanshi(yoshiko)(later called the retired emperor kogen's empress,senseimonin)in 1315,after that she had no more children and it was presumed because emperor favored her joro(high rank woman servant in the imperial court),renshi(yasuko/kadoko)ano,instead of her.
