taira no takamune
taira no takamune,or prince takamune,(804-june 24,867)was a shisei kozoku(member of the imperial family conferred with a family name)of the early heian period who was given the surname taira.
background
he was the founder of kanmu heishi(taira clan)takamune line.
his grandfather is emperor kanmu,father was the imperial prince kazurahara,his wife was a daughter of fujiwara no nagara,fujiwara no ariko,and among his children were taira no sanenori(who was also called taira no saneo),taira no masanori,taira no korenori and taira no suenaga.
taira no yoshimune and prince takami,there is an opinion that he never existed,were his younger brothers.
on july 6,825,he was given the surname taira by his uncle,emperor junna,and he called himself taira no takamune.
this is the beginning of kanmu-heishi(taira clan),and its descendants were prosperous as the middle class noble men for generations.
you are not human if you do not belong to the taira clan.'
this wild remark was made by taira no tokitada who was in the bloodline of taira no korenori and tokitada was the 10th generation descendant of the long surviving tokikuni family,even after the genpei war(fighting between the minamoto and taira clans).
and the 17th descendant yukitoki nishinotoin founded the nishinotoin family and belonged to the line of the dojo families(the families who were permitted to enter the palace),however,the nishinotoin family discontinued a while during the sengoku period(period of warring states)and was reconstructed later by inviting tokiyoshi nishinotoin from the kawabata family as an adopted son.
career job grade
dates are according to the lunar calendar.
on february 25,823,he was ranked as jushiige(junior fourth rank,lower grade).
in september 823,he was posted to jiju(chamberlain).
on october 21,824,he was transferred to daigaku no kami(director of the bureau of education).
on october 21,826,he was transferred to nakatsukasa no taifu(senior assistant minister of the ministry of central affairs).
on april 30,828,he was chosen as the otoneri no kami(director of the bureau of royal attendants).
on february 7,830,he was promoted to jushiijo(junior fourth rank,upper grade).
his position as an official otoneri no kami remained unchanged.
on november 5,830,he was transferred to okurakyo(minister of the treasury).
in 831,he was transferred to gyobukyo(minister of justice).
on february 24,842,he was promoted to shoshiige(senior fourth rank,lower grade).
his position as an official gyobukyo remained unchanged.
on september 22,842,he was transferred to okurakyo.
on may 20,843,he was promoted to jusanmi(junior third rank).
his position as an official okurakyo remained the same.
on january 23,852,he was added to sangi(royal advisors).
his position as an official okurakyo remained unchanged.
on september 27,854,he added his job of togu no daibu(master of the crown prince's quarters)of imperial prince korehito(latter day emperor seiwa).
he might have resigned the post of okurakyo?(unconfirmed)
on october 28,858,he was transferred to gon chunagon(provisional middle counselor).
on december 19 of the same year,he was promoted to shosanmi(senior third rank.)
his post as an official gon chunagon remained unchanged.
on january 21,860,the post of mutsu-dewa azechi(local inspector of mutsu and dewa provinces)was added to his responsibilities.
on february 15,860,he was transferred to chunagon(vice-councilor of state.)
his previously added official post of mutsu-dewa azechi remained unchanged.
on february 26,864,he was promoted to dainagon(chief councilor of state.)
