imperial prince fushiminomiya kuniyori
imperial prince fushiminomiya kuniyori(december 4,1733-october 4,1802)was a member of the imperial family in the edo period.
he was the 18th head of the fushiminomiya family.
he was the second son of imperial prince fushiminomiya sadataka.
his childhood name was taka no miya;firstly written '孝宮',later in different japanese characters '堯宮'.
in 1742,he entered kaju-ji temple and became a disciple of priestly imperial prince kajujinomiya sonko.
in november 1745,he succeeded to the chief priest of kanju-ji temple.
in december 1745,he was adopted by emperor sakuramachi,and in june 1746,he was given the title of imperial prince.
he was firstly named noriakira.
he entered the buddhist priesthood at kaju-ji temple and called himself priestly imperial prince kanpo.
in 1748,he became betto(the head priest)of todai-ji temple.
after imperial prince fushiminomiya sadamochi passed away in july 1774,as there was no heir to the fushiminomiya family,he returned to the secular life following the order of emperor gomomozono and succeeded to the fushiminomiya family on december 15th of the same year receiving the title of imperial prince again with his name changed to kuniyori.
in march 1775,as his coming of age ceremony was held,he was appointed to hyobusho-kyo(minister of military).
in january 1779,he was granted nihon(the second rank of imperial prince).
however,in 1779 when emperor gomomozono died without leaving an heir,there was a rumor that imperial prince kuniyori might have poisoned him,which sparked uproar among people such as kyoto shoshidai(the kyoto deputy)and the retired emperor gosakuramachi,but kuniyori's innocence was soon vindicated.
in 1787,he married masako takatsukasa,a daughter of sukehira takatsukasa.
in 1788,he had to undergo the hardship of losing his palace which was destroyed by the great fire that hit the city of kyoto.
on october 3,1802,he was granted ippon(the first rank of imperial prince),but passed away on the next day,october 4th.
died at the age of 70.
his posthumous buddhist name is kukyokakuin.
he had children including imperial prince fushiminomiya sadayuki,priestly imperial prince rinnojinomiya kocho,princess taruko and others.
