emperor goenyu
emperor goenyu(january 11,1359-june 6,1393),his reign was from april 9,1371 to may 24,1382,he was the fifth northern court emperor of the period of the northern and southern courts.
his first name was ohito.
he was excluded from successive emperors since the southern court was considered as the standard era in 1911.(until then,the northern court which led to current imperial lineage,was considered as the standard era.)
genealogy
he was the second prince of emperor gokogon.
his mother was the minister of the left,kanetsuna hirohashi's adopted daughter,sukenmon-in fujiwara no nakako.(real father was the highest-ranking priest in charge of the clerical business of iwashimizu hachiman-gu shrine,ki no michikiyo(紀通清).)
nakako's sister,ki no yoshiko was yoshimitsu ashikaga's mother,emperor goenyu was yoshimitsu's maternal cousin and they both were same age.(or one year difference according to the solar calendar)
brief personal history
in 1371 after receiving the title prince by imperial order,he immediately succeeded to the throne after emperor gokogon passed the throne to him.
emperor gokogon and emperor suko opposed each other concerning the succession of the crown prince,since emperor gokogon had support from a shogunate deputy of the muromachi bakufu(japanese feudal government headed by a shogun),yoriyuki hosokawa,his son,imperial prince ohito became crown prince.
in 1368 yoshimitsu ashikaga became a seii taishogun(literally, "great general who subdues the barbarians")while he was still young,shogunal deputy,yoriyuki hosokawa supervised him when retired emperor gokogon ruled the cloister government until 1374.
politics were at a standstill confronted with issues like the northern and southern dynasty measures,in contrast,the imperial palace was at peace.
in 1379 when yoriyuki lost his position due to yoshimasa shiba's work,yoshimitsu exhibited his skill to rule the government and gradually started getting involved in the business of the imperial palace.
in 1382 on april 11 he passed the throne to his son,emperor gokomatsu and started ruling the cloistered government,however,he did not have control of politics since yoshimitsu was actively involved in the imperial palace's business,the following year incidents happened where he beat the empress takako after she returned to the imperial palace after giving birth to her child,or his favorite mistress,azechi no tsubone became a nun after an affair with yoshimitsu became apparent,and rumors were spreading that yoshimitsu tried to sentence the retired emperor to deportation and so on,he attempted to commit suicide inside the jibutsu-do.
in 1392 the period of the northern and southern courts finished after a peace agreement was concluded between both parties with yoshimitsu's help,the retired emperor died on april 26,1393.
he was thirty six years old.
eras during his reign
oan(march 23,1368)-february 27,1375
eiwa february 27,1375-march 22,1379
koryaku march 22,1379-february 24,1381
eitoku february 24,1381-(april 11,1382)
the imperial mausoleum
the emperor was entombed in fukakusa no kita no misasagi at fukakusa bo-cho town,fushimi ward,kyoto city.
