emperor hanzei
emperor hanzei(circa 336-february 12,410)was the eighteenth emperor who reigned from february 3,406,to february 12,410.
his name was tajihi no mizuhawake no mikoto or mizuhawake no mikoto(according to "kojiki" [literally,the records of ancient matters]).
there is a high possibility that he is the king of wa(japan),king chin(or mi or ya or iyoyo),one of the 'five kings of wa' described in "so-jo" (literally,the book of song[one of the nanbeichao or the southern dynasties of china])and "ryo-jo" (literally,the book of liang).
genealogy
he was the third son of emperor nintoku.
his mother was a daughter of katsuragi no sotsuhiko,whose name was iwanohime no mikoto.
he was a younger brother of emperor richu and an elder brother of emperor ingyo.
imperial palace
it was tajihi no shibakaki no miya palace in the capital(the location is believed to be the place where there is shibagaki-jinja shrine at 7-chome,ueda,matsubara city,osaka prefecture).
background
he was born in awaji no miya palace(details unknown,awaji-shima island?)and was good-looking.
it is said that he was born with a beautiful teeth alignment and so was he named(mizuhawake).
after the demise of his father,emperor nintoku,mizuhawake as the leader of a punitive expedition against a rebellion,killed his rebellious older brother,suminoe no nakatsu miko.
the investiture of the crown prince was held in 401.
in 405,emperor richu passed away,and in february,406,he acceded to the throne.
here began succession of the throne between brothers.
in november,406,he transferred the capital to tajihi of kawachi province.
his era was peaceful and tranquil,and he reigned for five years without any incident.
he passed away in february,410.
he died at the age of 60,according to the "kojiki" and "mizukagami" (literally,the water mirror).
according to the "kojiki," the year of his demise which is 'the seventh month in the year of teach or hinoto no ushi(according to the chinese sexagenary cycle)' corresponds to the year 437 ce,and as a result of back calculation his year of birth corresponds to the year 378 ce,which was nine years after the birth of his elder brother,emperor richu.
imperial tomb and mausoleum
he was entombed in mozu no mimihara no kita no misasagi(mausoleum).
this is identified with tadeiyama-kofun tumulus(a keyhole-shaped mound of 148 meters in the total length)located at 2-cho,kita-mikunigaoka-cho town,sakai city,osaka prefecture.
