shinnohi(imperial princess by marriage)
shinnohi or miko-no-mime(imperial princess by marriage)is the title given to a wife of a shinno(imperial prince)or refers to a person holding such a title.
under the article 5 of the imperial house law,shinnohi are the members of the imperial family in japan.
the crown princesses are among shinnohi.
the honorific title for shinnohi is 'denka' (clause 2,article 23 of the imperial house law).
during the heian period,they were called miyasudokoro(lady of the bedchamber).
at present there are six shinnohi including the crown princess;the princess masako,the wife of the imperial prince naruhito(the crown princess),the princess kiko,the wife of the imperial prince fumihito,the princess hanako,the wife of the imperial prince masahito,the princess yuriko,the wife of the imperial prince takahito,the princess nobuko,the wife of the imperial prince tomohito and the princess hisako,the wife of the imperial prince norihito.
summary
while the title of a shinno(imperial prince)or naishinno(imperial princess by birth)is put before the name as in 'imperial prince fumihito' and considered to be a part of the name,the title of a shinnohi(also empress)is put both before and after the name as in 'princess kiko,the wife of the imperial prince fumihito.'
following the writing manner of those shinno,naishinno,putting the title of a shinnohi only before the name such as 'princess kiko,' is considered as a misuse of official writing.
when a member of the imperial family(naishinno or princess)marries a shinno and becomes a shinnohi,she retains her maiden title as well as the title of shinnohi until she becomes an empress.
an example of this is arisugawa no miya princess toshiko who became the princess toshiko joo,the wife of the imperial prince sadanaru,after her marriage.
a shinnohi,when meeting any of the following conditions,shall cease to be the member of the imperial family and lose her status as shinnohi(article 14 of the imperial house law):
a shinnohi shall leave the status of the imperial family member,when she wishes to do so upon the death of her husband(shinno).
when a shinno dies,she shall,in case of special and unavoidable circumstances,leave the status of the member of the imperial family by the approval of the imperial house council.
a shinohi shall lose the status of the member of the imperial family,when she has divorced shinno.
