imperial prince shogoinnomiya yoshikoto(shogoinnomiya yoshikoto shinno)
the imperial prince shogoinnomiya yoshikoto(february 28,1821-september 26,1868)was one of the imperial family members between the end of edo period and the meiji period.
he was the second prince of the imperial prince fushiminomiya kuniie.
his mother was hisano ueno,and he was called tayoshinomiya when he was a child.
in 1831,he entered priesthood,and he called himself the priestly imperial prince yunin.
the same year,he was adopted to the emperor kokaku and given the title of imperial prince and the name yoshikoto.
the same year,he entered manshuin,a monzeki temple(a temple where some imperial family members lived and practiced buddhism)in yamashina,kyoto prefecture.
in 1868,when the meiji restoration took place,he called himself shogoinnomiya,and then he returned to secular life and called himself the imperial prince yoshikoto again.
after that,he handed over the name shogoinnomiya.
he was promoted to ippon,which is the first rank of the imperial princes' ranks,and he became the governor of domestic affairs office,but he died that year.
he was 47 years old when he died.
the imperial prince kitashirakawanomiya satonari inherited shogoinnimiya.
blood relationship
his father was the imperial prince fushiminomiya kuniie,his foster mother was the princess hiroko takatsukasa,and his birth mother was hisako fujiki,a court lady.
his brothers are as follows:the imperial prince yamashinanomiya akira,the imperial prince shogoinnomiya yoshikoto,the priestly imperial prince manshuinnomiya jonin,the imperial prince kuninomiya asahiko,a son,the imperial prince fushiminomiya sadanori,a son,the imperial prince komatsunomiya akihito,the imperial prince kitashirakawanomiya yoshihisa,a son,a son,the imperial prince kachonomiya hirotsune,the imperial prince kitashirakawanomiya satonari the imperial prince fushiminomiya sadanaru,ienori kiyosu,the imperial prince kaninnomiya kotohito,and the imperial prince higashifushiminomiya yorihito(the list of sisters is omitted.)
