fujiwara no ishi
fujiwara no ishi(takeko)(february 6,1000-october 4,1036)was the fourth daughter of fujiwara no michinaga,who held the title of sessho(regent).
her mother was minamoto no rinshi
she was the chugu(an empress consort)of the 68th emperor goichijo.
her other name was daichugu.
imperial princess shoshi(chugu of the emperor goreizei)and imperial princess keishi(chugu of the emperor gosanjo)were her daughters.
her maternal half-siblings included fujiwara no yorimichi,fujiwara no norimichi,fujiwara no shoshi,fujiwara no kenshi and fujiwara no kishi.
she was appointed to naishi no tsukasa(female palace attendants)in 1012.
she was conferred the court rank of shoshiinoge(senior fourth rank,lower grade)and in the same year,the ceremony of chakumo(a girl's ceremony to wear "mo" -a kind of skirt for the first time)was held for her and she was conferred the court rank of jusanmi(junior third rank).
in 1013,she was conferred the court rank of junii(junior second rank)and in 1017,she was concurrently appointed to betto(chief administrator)of joganden(one of the buildings in the kokyu(empress's residence)in the palace).
in april 1018,she entered into court to marry emperor goichijo,her nephew.
she became nyogo(a high-ranking lady in the court(a consort of an emperor))in may by the imperial decree and became chugu in october.
in may 1036,her husband,emperor goichijo,died.
she entered into the buddhist priesthood on october 2 of the same year and died two days later.
her age at the time of death was 38.
she was the third daughter of the couple michinaga and rinshi.
she entered into court at the age of 20 when emperor goichijo,who was born by her eldest sister shoshi,celebrated his coming-of-age.
she was older than her husband by nine years and she was ashamed of it,but she was respected as the daughter of a powerful figure michinaga.
under such circumstances,even ishi's brothers refrained from sending their daughters into court and eventually no other consorts entered into empress's residence even after michinaga's death.
when ishi became the empress,michinaga accomplished an unprecedented great achievement,namely all of sango(empress,empress dowager and great empress dowager)were his daughters at that time.
it is believed that a waka poem 'konoyooba' (michinaga's famous waka poem in which he boasted of his power)was composed on the occasion of a banquet celebrating the above.
("shoyuki" -the diary of fujiwara no sanesuke)
however,ishi had only two daughters although she was the sole empress.
when she delivered the first imperial princess shoshi,according to "eiga monogatari" (a tale of flowering fortunes),those around kishi were disappointed and the emperor stood up for her by saying 'the empress used to exist in ancient times.'
she eventually had no sons and died of smallpox less than half a year after the death of the emperor,who died young at the age of 29.
ishi's two young imperial princesses were brought up by their grandmother(also their aunt)shoshi and their uncle yorimichi and later entered into court to marry the brothers of goreizei and gosanjo respectively.
however,both of them had no children and as a result,the family line of goichijo and ishi died out.
