goyotei(imperial villa)
goyotei is a villa of imperial family or royalty of japan.
the imperial family visits goyotei several times a year both for rest and summer or winter stay.
according to the definition by imperial household agency,villas with a certain size of building and site are regarded as rikyu(detached palaces),whereas small-scale villas are called goyotei.
existing goyotei
nasu goyotei(located in nasu-machi,nasu-gun county,tochigi prefecture,from 1926 up to today)
it is visited mainly in august and september.
in 2008,upon request of emperor akihito and empress michiko the imperial family visited the nasu goyotei for the first time in autumn:october 24-27.
hayama goyotei(located in hayama-cho,miura-gun county,kanagawa prefecture,from 1894 up to today)
it is visited mainly in february and march.
it is not used in summer due to the tourist season.
although the building was destroyed by fire in 1971,it was reconstructed in 1981.
suzaki goyotei(located in shimoda city,shizuoka prefecture,from 1971 up to today)
it is visited mainly in july and august.
former goyotei
kobe goyotei(located in kobe city,hyogo prefecture)
it was established in 1886,and the site is currently a part of kobe harborland.
atami goyotei(located in atami city,shizuoka prefecture)
it was established in 1888.
the site is currently occupied by atami city hall.
ikaho goyotei(located in ikaho-cho,gunma prefecture)
it was established in 1890,and the site is currently occupied by ikaho kenshujo(training center)of gunma university.
sannai goyotei(located in nikko city,tochigi prefecture)
it was established in 1890.
the site is currently occupied by the shrine office of nikko tosho-gu shrine.
numazu goyotei(located in numazu city,shizuoka prefecture)
it was established in 1893,and the site is currently known as numazu goyotei memorial park.
miyanoshita goyotei(located in hakone-machi,kanagawa prefecture)
it was established in 1895.
it was later a villa of takamatsunomiya family and is currently used as fujiya hotel annex kikkaso-inn.
tamozawa goyotei(located in nikko city,tochigi prefecture)
it was established in 1899,and the site is currently known as nikko tamozawa goyotei memorial park.
kamakura goyotei(located in kamakura city,kanagawa prefecture)
it was established in 1899,and abolished in 1931,and the site is currently occupied by kamakura municipal onari elementary school and kamakura city hall.
shizuoka goyotei(located in shizuoka city,shizuoka prefecture)
it was established in 1900,abolished in 1930,and destroyed by fire due to shizuoka great air raid.
the site is currently occupied by shizuoka city hall.
odawara goyotei(located in odawara city,kanagawa prefecture)
it was established in 1901,and abolished in 1930,and the site is currently a part of odawara-jo castle.
shiobara goyotei(located in nasushiobara city,tochigi prefecture)
it was established in 1904.
the site is currently occupied by kokuritsu(national)komeiryo(literally,dormitory of the light,referring to a national vocational training center for the visually disabled)shiobara visual disabilities institution,national rehabilitation center for persons with disabilities.
a part of the shiobara goyotei,tenno-no-ma(literally,emperor's chamber),was relocated and has been conserved in 'emperor's room memorial park.'
topics
upon demise of emperor taisho in december 25,1926,crown prince hirohito succeeded to the imperial throne at the hayama goyotei.
at the area adjacent to hayama goyotei a monument to commemorate emperor showa's succession to the throne is placed.
in 2007,the control of about a half of the site of the nasu goyotei,which was the 570-hectare site,was transferred from imperial household agency to ministry of the environment.
the transferred site is planned to become a part of nikko national park in 2011,and will be opened to the public.
