imperial prince fushiminomiya kuniie
imperial prince fushiminomiya kuniie(november 19,1802-september 7,1872)was a member of the imperial family at the end of edo period in japan.
he was the twentieth and the twenty-third head of the fushiminomiya family.
he was the first son of imperial prince fushiminomiya sadayuki.
his childhood name was masa no miya.
his father,imperial prince sadayuki,was once nominated for an heir to the imperial throne.
in 1817,he was adopted by emperor kokaku and given the title of imperial prince.
he was named kuniie.
in the same month,as his coming of age ceremony was held,he was appointed to the governor of kozuke province and granted sanbon(the third rank of imperial prince).
in 1835,he married hiroko takatsukasa,a daughter of masahiro takatsukasa.
in 1841,since his father,imperial prince sadayuki,passed away,and he succeeded to the fushiminomiya family.
however,in 1842 the next year,he retired after transferring reigns of the family to his sixth son,yorinomiya(later,renamed imperial prince fushiminomiya sadanori).
he became a buddhist monk and was called zenraku.
on march 14,1864,when he was allowed to return to the secular life(exclaustration),he re-succeeded to the fushiminomiya family and was again called kuniie.
in march,1866(or 1865),he was promoted to nihon(the second rank of imperial prince),and became shikibusho-kyo(the minister of ceremonial).
when taisei hokan(transfer of power back to the emperor)took place in 1867,he was appointed to kokuji goyogakari(a general official of the imperial household in charge of the state affair).
on march 25,1868,he was granted ippon(the first rank of imperial prince)in recognition of many years of his efforts in the field of court music.
in april,1872,he and his family moved from kyoto to tokyo.
on may 16th,he transferred reigns of the family to his 14th son,imperial prince fushiminomiya sadanaru,and retired.
he passed away on september 7,1872.
died at the age of 71.
family
imperial prince kuniie had many children as his father,imperial prince sadayuki did.
through the discussion of the succession to the imperial throne,in order to maintain the agnate blood line,the eleven former imperial families which renounced their imperial status in 1947 insist on rejoining:those families are all originated from imperial prince kuniie.
