ashikamino kamami wakenomiko
ashikamino kamami wakenomiko was a member of the imperial family that appears in the "kojiki" (the records of ancient matters)and "nihonshoki" (chronicles of japan),and he was the son of yamato takeru no mikoto.
he is written in "kojiki" as ashikagamiwakenokimi,the name of his mother was yamashiro no kukumamori hime,and he is regarded as the ancestor of kamakura now ake,ozu,iwashiro no wake,and fukita no wake.
he is described as ashikamino kamami wakenomiko in "sendai kujihongi" (ancient japanese history)and is the ancestor of kamanokuchinokimi and so on.
also in "sumiyoshi taisha jindaiki" (records of the age of the gods from the sumiyoshi-taisha shrine),he is described as ashikamino kamami wakenomiko.
according to "nihonshoki",emperor chuai intended to keep swans in the pond that surrounded the mausoleum in memory of his father,yamato takeru no mikoto,and ordered countries to present swans.
therefore,koshi province presented four swans.
however,when the bearer from the koshi province was resting beside the yodo-gawa river,ashikamino kamami wakenomiko came over and said 'where are you bringing those swans to?'
the bearer answered 'these swans are for the emperor who intends to keep them in memory of his father.'
then,the ashikamino kumami wakenomiko wrested them away by saying 'even if they are swans,they would become black birds if you burn them.'
when the bearer reported this to the emperor,he became angry and killed ashikamino kamami wakenomiko for being rude to their father.
there is no description of this story in "kojiki";it only has his pedigree record.
"nihonshoki",on the other hand,describes the legend concerning ashikamino kamami wakenomiko,but does not mention his name in the section on the pedigree record of yamato takeru no mikoto in 'keiko-ki.'
the names of both himself and his mother is unknown.
norinaga motoori mentioned that his mother,kukumamorihime,may be the shortened form for kurikuma kyo in kuse-gun yamashiro province.
