imperial princess baishi(princess of emperor gouda)
imperial princess baishi(year of birth and death unknown)was the second princess of emperor gouda.
her mother was princess rinshi,the prince of imperial prince munetaka who was seii taishogun(literally, "great general who subdues the barbarians")of the kamakura bakufu(japanese feudal government headed by a shogun).
her nyoingo(title of respect given to close female relatives of the emperor or a woman of comparable standing)was sumeimonin(also pronounced someimonin).
brief personal history
she was given the title of imperial princess on december 18,1319.
she later became the wife of crown prince kuniyoshi(the heir of emperor gonijo),who was her nephew.
a safe birth for the wife of imperial prince was prayed for in 1323;on this occasion,it was known that baishi became the wife of the crown prince.
emperor godaigo,who was the crown prince's uncle and baishi's half brother,complained that his family line was positioned as a branch family of daikakuji-to(imperial lineage starting with emperor kameyama)and insisted on the position of direct descendant of daikakuji-to,thus intensifying a feud with kuniyoshi who was demanding emperor godaigo's abdication.
however,imperial prince kuniyoshi suddenly died in 1326 and then baishi entered into the priesthood soon after his death to raise a bereaved child of imperial prince kuniyoshi,imperial prince yasuhito(his mother was the daughter of sadanori kazanin,who held the title of gon dainagon-provisional major counselor).
after emperor godaigo was dethroned due to his attempt to overthrow the kamakura bakufu(the genko incident)in 1331,emperor kogon of jimyoin-to(imperial lineage from emperor gofukakusa to emperor gokomatsu)was enthroned.
on this occasion,imperial prince yasuhito was installed as the crown prince by the intention of kamakura bakufu who was demanding an alternate accedence from two ancestries of the imperial families including the family of imperial prince kuniyoshi,the main branch of daikakuji-to those who were not involved in the genko incident.
thereafter,baishi was treated as the mother and thus awarded the rank of jusangu(honorary rank next to the three empresses:great empress dowager,empress dowager,and empress)upon the investiture for yasuhito on december 3,1331,and then was given the title of nyoin(a close female relative of the emperor or a woman of comparable standing).
however,after the kamakura bakufu collapsed and emperor godaigo returned to kyoto,her title of nyoin was discarded and she was demoted to imperial princess on july 7,1333.
on may 26,1338 in the kenmu era after the fall of the kenmu government,she was awarded ingo(a title of respect given to close female relatives of the emperor or a woman of comparable standing)again by the imperial decree of emperor komyo in the northern court(japan).
her history thereafter is unknown.
