imperial princess shoshi
imperial princess shoshi(masako)(950-january 15,1000)was the first princess of the 61st emperor suzaku.
her mother was princess kishi(hiroko),the emperor's nyogo(a high-ranking lady in the court(a consort of an emperor)).
she was the chugu(an empress consort)of the 63rd emperor reizei.
she was born in 950 after her father,emperor suzaku,abdicated the throne and became an imperial princess in september 29 of the same year by imperial proclamation.
her mother princess kishi died soon after she was born and her father,emperor suzaku,also died young in 952 at the age of 30 while being anxious about his only daughter's future.
emperor murakami,her uncle,felt pity for the imperial princess who lost her parent in her infancy and patronized her warmly.
in 961,the emperor conferred sanbon(the third rank for imperial prince/princess)on her at shokoden of the imperial palace by conducting uikogai(doing up one's hair as a part of coming-of-age ceremony)and giving shinkan(imperial letter).
in 963,she entered into the court to marry crown prince norihira(the emperor reizei).
emperor reizei ascended to the throne in 967 and she became chugu accordingly.
emperor reizei,however,abdicated the throne after being on the throne for only two years and thereafter,imperial princess shoshi became empress dowager in 973,grand empress dowager in 986 and died in 1000.
the age of her death was 50.
she spent most of her life at a villa residence since she was scared of emperor reizei who was mad.
she was known as a humble and virtuous empress who deeply embraced buddhism.
she was also called kannonin empress dowager because she founded kannon-in at kitaiwakurayama daiun-ji temple(kyoto city).
she had no children and adopted imperial prince nagahira,the eighth prince of the emperor murakami.
incidentally,the daughter of taira no yasuhira,ecchu kokushu(governor of ecchu province),and her daughter izumi shikibu served at the residence of imperial princess shoshi.
further,in her late years,a waka-poet fujiwara no tameyori(an uncle of murasaki shikibu)served her as the senior secretary of the grand empress dowager.
her imperial mausoleum is the iwakura mausoleum(iwakura agura-cho,sakyo ward,kyoto city,kyoto prefecture).
