itsuse no mikoto
itsuse no mikoto was a member of japanese imperial family,who appears in the japanese mythology.
in "nihonshoki" (chronicles of japan),his name is also written as hikoitsuse no mikoto(彦五瀬命).
description in the mythology
he was born as the first son between ugaya fukiaezu and the daughter of watatsumi(tutelary of the sea),tamayoribime.
his younger brothers were inani no mikoto,mikenu no mikoto,and wakamikenu no mikoto(iwarehiko no mikoto).
later,iwarehiko no mikoto became the first emperor,emperor jinmu.
he joined jinmu tosei(eastern expedition of the emperor jinmu)with his younger brothers,but during the battle against nagasunehiko at shirakata no tsu(bay of shirakata)(or kusaezaka)in namihaya no kuni(namihaya province),he was hit by the arrow that nagasunehiko had sent.
itsuse no mikoto advised his troops as 'now that we are the sons of the sun,we should not fight facing the sun(the east),let's turn around and fight with our back to the sun(the west).'
following his advice,the troops marched toward the south to turn around,but when they reached onominato in kii province,his wound got serious.
it is said that itsuse no mikoto roared a virile cry, 'what a pity that i should die from a wound by the rebel,' and therefore,this site came to be called onominato(literally floodgate of virility).
after he died at onominato in kii province according to "kojiki" (the records of ancient matters),or at kamayama in kii province according to the nihonshoki,his mausoleum was constructed at kamayama(wakayama prefecture).
comments
according to "kojiki-den" (commentary on the kojiki), 'itsuse' (五瀬)was understood as(厳稲)(literally,majesty of rice),and therefore,he was identified as the god of crops and foods.
his imperial mausoleum(hikoitsuse no mikoto's tomb)is located in kamayama,wakayama city,wakayama prefecture.
kamayama-jinja shrine that enshrines itsuse no mikoto is found nearby to the south of the tomb.
he is also enshrined at ani-jinja shrine in okayama city,okayama prefecture,with his brothers inani no mikoto and mikenu no mikoto.
