imperial prince morikuni
imperial prince morikuni(june 27,1301-october 3,1333)was the ninth seii taishogun(literally, "great general who subdues the barbarians")of the kamakura bakufu(japanese feudal government headed by a shogun),and he was the last shogun of the kamakura bakufu.
he was born to the eighth shogun,imperial prince hisaaki and the daughter of the seventh shogun,imperial prince koreyasu.
in august 1308,he assumed the post of seii taishogun at the age of merely eight.
it was the hojo clan(mainly the tokuso family),a shikken(shogunal regent)who took the real control of the bakufu then;the shogun of kamakura bakufu was just nominal.
in addition,a dialogue for the need for the daimoku sect was assigned to nichiro(a chief priest of ikegami honmon-ji temple,choei mountain,musashi province),one of the six older monks of the nichiren sect who passed away after that.
nichiro was so old that he sent his pupil,nichiin to have a debate between daimoku sect and every other sect of japanese buddhism during the period from january 30,1319 to november 5,1319(kamakura denchu mondo dialogue).
after all,nichiin refuted all the sects of buddhism,and the bakufu officially approved dissemination of daimoku sect.
when a movement to topple the kamakura bakufu by emperor godaigo in 1333 took place,kamakura fell after attacks by yoshiakira ashikaga and yoshisada nitta.
eventually,the kamakura bakufu was overthrown.
imperial prince morikuni resigned as shogun,and became a priest;he passed away in kamakura during the same year.
chronology of government posts and ranks
dates follow the lunar calendar.
on august 10,1308,he was proclaimed seii taishogun.
he was sometimes referred to as morikuni-o.
in october,he became an imperial prince.
he was appointed to sanbon(the third rank of the imperial prince's ranks).
he was sometimes referred to as imperial prince morikuni.
on april 19,1317,he was appointed to nihon(the second court rank for imperial princes).
on may 22,1333,he resigned as seii taishogun.
he became a priest.
shikken when he served as shogun
morotoki hojo(a child of munemasa hojo;the tenth shikken)
munenobu hojo(the eldest son of nobutoki hojo;the eleventh shikken)
hirotoki hojo(the eldest son of tametoki hojo;the twentieth shikken)
mototoki hojo(the eldest son of tokikane hojo;the thirteenth shikken)
takatoki hojo(the third son of sadatoki hojo;the fourteenth shikken)
sadaaki hojo(the fourth son of akitoki hojo;the fifteenth shikken)
moritoki hojo(the eldest son of hisatoki hojo;the sixteenth shikken)
