wakamiya
wakamiya
the word represents a son of an imperial family.
the appellation used for a young imperial prince.
especially an heir to the family head of a miyake(house of an imperial prince),usually the eldest son of the head of the family,is called xx no wakamiya(wakamiya of xx).
until 1947,when former imperial families renounced their status,there had been many miyakes and a custom to call the prince who was an heir to his father who was to succeed the miyake, 'wakamiya'.
if the custom continued,then for example imperial prince tomohito,the eldest son of imperial prince mikasanomiya takahito would be called 'mikasa no wakamiya' and imperial prince hisahito,the eldest son of imperial prince akishinonomiya fumihito would be called 'akishino no wakamiya'.
however,today this appellation is seldom used even by the people who are familiar with the imperial household system.
it is a shrine where the son of a deity of the hongu(main shrine)is enshrined.
it is the abbreviation of wakamiya-jinja shrine,wakamiya-hachiman-gu shrine,etc.which are located in various places.
the names of locations,etc.
wakamiya(nakano ward)
the name of a place in nakano ward,tokyo
wakamiya(okegawa city)
the name of a place in okegawa city,saitama prefecture
wakamiya(ichikawa city)
the name of a place in ichikawa city,chiba prefecture
wakamiya-cho
wakamiya-machi,kurate county,fukuoka prefecture(present-day miyawaka city)
wakamiya station
a station on tadami line of east japan railway company(jr east)located at aizubange-machi,kawanuma county,fukushima prefecture
wakamiya-oji street
the sando(approach)in tsurugaoka hachiman-gu shrine located in kamakura city,kanagawa prefecture.
wakamiya interchange
the interchange of hanshin expressway no 3 kobe route located in suma ward,kobe city.
wakamiya odori street
one of the 100 m-wide roads in nagoya city,aichi prefecture.
a warship of imperial japanese navy(ijn)
wakamiya(seaplane carrier)
one of the etorofu-type(a type of japanese warship used during world war ⅱ)coast defense ships
family name of a japanese
