gyoko
"gyoko" (miyuki)is a japanese term used to refer to the visit of the emperor.
visiting more than one place is called junko.
another japanese word for this is "miyuki."
summary
the term "gyokei" or "junkei" is used to refer to a visit by the empress,the empress dowager,the crown prince,or the crown princess,while "gyokokei" or "junkokei" is used if the emperor is also present for the visit.
when just saying; 'gyokokei,' it often means the emperor and the empress going out together.
it is called kanko,kankei,kankokei when coming back from gyokokei.
except for the above occasions,when the imperial family goes out it is called onari,gokikan is coming back from onari.
however there are occasions when it's called kyoko,instead of gyokei,for example,when the empress jingu went to ise province during the nara period.
it's also called karimiya to stay a night during gyoko during the nara period.
it is often called using the name of the place or the name of the shrine where gyoko is being done.
especially when gyoko to a specific place,the name of the place is added.
for example,gyoko to the sumiyoshi-taisha shrine is called 'sumiyoshi gyoko.'
also there is a description of 'kurama-dera temple goko' in the historical book of the kamakura period.
tokyo gyoko' seems to mean just an ordinary gyoko,but it practically means the establishment of the capital.
according to the government newsletter published by an independent administrative institution,the national printing bureau,the following items are run when there was gyokokei of the emperor and empress.
the name of the people who went to gyokokei(emperor's gyoko,the empress's gyokei,the gyokokei for both)
the place of the gyokokei and the purpose of the visit
the date and the time of the departure and the same of the kankokei
it is run as follows in specific examples.
the h.m.[his majesty]the emperor left(shutsumon)at twelve forty one in the afternoon on twenty eighth,september,to the diet building to attend(gyoko)the hundred and sixty fifth opening ceremony of the diet,and came back(kanko)at one nineteen in the afternoon on the same day.
(quoted from volume 4434 of the government newsletter dated monday,october 2,2006)
historically famous gyokokei
the jurakudai gyoko:emperor goyozei,april 14,1588-april 18.
the nijo-jo castle gyoko:emperor gomizunoo
junko to the country:emperor meiji,after 1868
junko to the country:emperor showa,after 1946
names of places and shrines related to gyoko
the gyoko road-ise city,mie prefecture
the front approach to ise-jingu shrine
from emperor meiji's gyoko
the goko to see some woolen goods.
the gyoko road-machida city,tokyo,from emperor showa's gyoko
gyoko street-chiyoda ward,tokyo
gokodai-yakuendai,funabashi city,chiba prefecture(from the original place of narashino)
miyuki street-himeji city,hyogo prefecture from emperor meiji's gyoko
goko primary school-kumamoto city,from emperor meiji's gyoko
goko park-saiwai ward,kawasaki city,from emperor meiji's gyoko
the name of the saiwai from saiwai ward originated from this.
gokogaoka-tsukuba city,ibaraki prefecture.
seiseki sakuragaoka station-tama city,tokyo
seiseki means the place of gyoko.
there are many other places related to gokomachi.
