prince hikoimasu(hikoimasu no miko)
prince hikoimasu(hikoimasu no miko[彦坐王];his date of birth and death are unknown.)first appeared in the "record of ancient matters" and "chronicles of japan," as he was a member of an imperial family(royal family)during the kofun period(tumulus period)in japan.
prince hikoimasu(彦坐王)was also known as "(彦坐命)hikoimasu no mikoto," "(日子坐王)hikoimasu no miko," and "(彦今簀命)hikoimasu no mikoto."
prince hikoimasu was the third prince of the emperor kaika.
the mother of prince hikoimasu was a younger sister of 'hahatsu mikoto,' 'hahatsuhime no mikoto.'
prince hikoimasu was the younger paternal brother of the emperor sujin,a great-grandfather of the emperor keiko,and a great-great-grandfather of the empress jingu.
according to "kojiki" (the records of ancient matters),prince hikoimasu received an order from the emperor sujin to destroy 'kugamimi no mikasa.'
thus,prince hikoimasu was sent to tamba.
according to the haishi(old chinese story driven history book),prince hikoimasu ruled his territory,mino province where he endeavored to develop forest conservation and flood control together with his child, 'yatsuriirihiko-no-o,'
besides the mino province,his descendants expanded upon their territories into many different places such as hitachi province,kai province,mikawa province,ise province,omi province,yamashiro province,kawachi province,yamato province,tajima province,harima province,tanba province,kibi province,wakasa province and inaba province.
at a much later time period in this history,the echizen-asakura clan became a daimyo(japanese feudal lord)during the sengoku period(period of warring states)in japan,having had the original name of the kusakabe clan.
then,the kusakabe clan was lineage to the 'tanba kuni no miyatsuko(regional administrator)' family,which claimed to be descended from prince hikoimasu.
prince hikoimasu(hikoimasu no mikoto[日子坐命])has been enshrined in both kusakabe-jinja shrine located in sakai city,osaka prefecture,and iwanonishi-jinja shrine located in iwata,gifu city.
also,there is the megalith which is said to be the grave of prince hikoimasu(the imperial household agency manages this place.),near the iwanonishi-jinja shrine.
family tree
in "kojiki" (the records of ancient matters),princes and princesses of prince hikoimasu(hikoimasu no mikoto[日子坐命])were written in detail,but there were rare written articles about the princes and princesses in "the nihonshoki" (the chronicles of japan).
princess: 'oketsuhime no mikoto' (a younger sister of 'hikooketsu no mikoto')
'yamashiro-no-otsutsukimawaka-no-miko'
he was a great-grandfather of the empress jingu and the ancestor of 'tanba kuni no miyatsuko(regional administrator).'
hikoosu no miko
irine no miko
princess:saho no okuramitome(a daughter of 'kasuga takekunikatsutome')
sahobiko no miko(狭穂彦王)(also written as "沙本毘古王" or "沢道彦命"?)
he was the ancestor of 'kai kuni no miyatsuko(regional administrator).'
ozaho no miko
sahobime no miko(狭穂姫命)(also written as "沙本毘売之命[sahobime no mikoto]" or "波遅比売.")
she was the empress of the emperor suinin(previous).
murobi no miko
princess:okinaga no mizuyorihime(a daughter of 'ame no mikage no kami')
taniwa no michinushi no miko' (also written as[tanihanohikotatasumichinoushinoo.]")
he was the father of 'hibasuhime no mikoto' (the empress of the emperor suinin[later]and the mother of the emperor keiko)and the ancestor of the 'lord of the hoi county in mikawa province.'
'mizuho no mawaka no miko'
he was the ancestor of the regional administrator of the yasu county in omi province.
'kamunoone no miko' ('kamubone yatsuriirihiko no o')
he was the ancestor of 'motosunokuni no miyatsuko' and 'minonosakinokuni no miyatsuko.'
mizuho no ioyorihime
miitsuhime
princess: 'yamashiro no enatsuhime'
'oomata no miko'
he was the ancestor of 'homuchinobe no kimi.'
'omata no miko'
'shibuminosukune no miko'
additionally,there was a written article on "a child of prince hikoimasu(hikoimasu no miko),hikotatsuhiko(彦多都彦命)" in the articles of 'inaba no kunimiyatsuko,' which were written in the document:sendai kujihongi(ancient japanese history),and in a section of the kokuzo hongi(the original record of provincial governors).
however,this child went unidentified.
