prince ichinobe no oshiha
prince ichinobe no oshiha(ichinobe no oshiha no miko;his birth date is unknown and his death date was in 456)appeared in the kiki("kojiki" [a record of ancient matte])and "nihonshoki" [chronicles of japan])and fudoki(description of regional climate,culture,etc.)as an imperial family(royal family)in fifth century japan.
prince ichinobe no oshiha was also know as:iwasaka no miko,iwasaka no ichinobe no oshiha oji,and ameyorozukuni yorozuoshiha no mikoto(all of above were written in "nihonshoki");and ichinohe no oshiha o and ichinohe no oshihawake no miko(all of above were written in the "kojiki");ichinohe no sumera mikoto was written in the "harimanokuni fudoki" (records of the culture and geography of the harima province).
prince ichinobe no oshiha was the first imperial prince of the emperor richu;the mother of prince ichinobe no oshiha was kurohime,a daughter of ashita no kusune.
additionally prince ichinobe no oshiha was the father of the emperor kenzo,emperor ninken,and iitoyo no himemiko.
prince ichinobe no oshiha was a cousin of the emperor anko and the emperor yuryaku.
the origin of name for prince ichinobe no oshiha was oshiha which meant double tooth.
in september 456,the emperor anko was assassinated by prince mayowa,but he had chosen prince oshiha as his successor and would pass on the imperial throne to prince oshiha.
thus,he was going to ask prince oshiha to look after his future affairs.
prince ohatsuse(later,the emperor yuryaku)while bearing malice toward prince oshiha and then using the pretense of a hunt,invited him to kayano,omi province(the current possible location is around the area of kaigake,hino town,gamo county,shiga prefecture)in november.
there,prince ohatsuse tricked prince oshiha,by saying; 'there are wild boars,' and killed him with an arrow.
furthermore,prince ohatsuse killed sakibe no uruwa(also known as nakachiko),a toneri(a lower class officer whose duty was guarding and taking care of members of imperial princes and princes of imperial family and royal family.);this was done while sakibe no uruwa was in his grief and saddened as he held the dead body of prince oshiha.
prince ohatsuse buried prince oshiha and sakibe no uruwa together in the same hall(in other words,no one built a mound for prince oshiha.)
the children of prince oshiha,brother princes oke(億計)and oke(弘計)(later,the emperor ninken and the emperor kenzo),were afraid of an approaching danger;so,they escaped with their toneri officers to akashi county in harima province via tamba province.
there,the brothers served shijimi no miyake no obito(縮見屯倉首)but concealed their names.
in 482,the brother princes oke(億計)and oke(弘計)were welcomed into the imperial court;later,the youngest brother,prince oke ascended to the throne(the emperor kenzo)in 485'
prince oke located the resting place of the remains of his late father,through the varied guidance of okime no omina,and he built a new mound for his father.
during the recovering the remains,the workers who assigned by prince oke failed to identify the separate remains of prince oshiha and nakachiko,except for each skull.
then,prince oke,seemed to order to the construction of two identical mounds.
currently,there are two round barrows(referred to "koboshitsuka")in ichinobe-cho,higashiomi city,shiga prefecture.
these tumuli are believed to be prince oshiha's burial mounds,and currently the imperial household agency manages them.
in the past,there were differing theories through which historians and other experts could identify the kensaitsuka kofun(the kofun was an enpun tumulus and disappeared)in kimura-cho,higashiomi city and kuma no mori kofun(keyhole-shaped tumulus)inside myoho-ji temple as the burial mound of prince oshiha.
family genealogy
prince:haehime(荑媛;the character of her name "hae" [荑]was made with kusakanmuri[草冠]plus "i" [夷]).
(she was a daughter of katsutagi no ari no omi.)
princess inatsu[居夏姫)inatsu hime]
prince oke(oke no miko also known as shima no wakugo,oshi no mikoto,and the emperor ninken)
prince oke(oke no miko;also known as kume no wakugo,and the emperor kenzo)
princess iitoyo no hime(iitoyo no hime miko;also known as iitoo no hime miko.)
is it suitable to consider her as an elder sister of the brother princes oke(億計)and oke(弘計)?
perhaps,two female family members of the brother princes,an aunt and sister,may have had similar names.
prince tachibana(tachibana no miko)
