emperor annei
emperor annei(577 b.c.-january 11,510 b.c.)is the third emperor,who was described in "kojiki" (the records of ancient matters)and "nihonshoki" (chronicles of japan)(reign:august 13,549 b.c.-january 11,510 b.c.).
in kojiki,he is called shikitsuhikotamatemi no mikoto or shikitsuhikotamademi no mikoto.
he is one of the so called kesshi-hachidai(eight undocumented sovereigns),and it is commonly understood that he was a nonexistent emperor.
(there is also the theory of his existence).
imperial palace
imperial palace was katashio no ukiana no miya.
in kojiki,there is a description that the imperial palace was "katashio no ukiana no miya."
there are three theories concerning the location of the palace as follows.
area around shijo town,kashihara city,nara prefecture("teio hen-nenki", "washu kyuseki yuko")
mikurado and katashio cho,yamatotakada city,nara prefecture("yamatoshi", "kotoryakukizu")
kashiwabara city,osaka prefecture("kojiki-den" (commentary on the kojiki), "dai nihon chimei jisho" (encyclopedia for place names of great japan))
in kojiki,there is a description that the imperial palace was "katashio no ukiana no miya."
names of towns and facilities(e.g.ukina station)such as "katashio" and "ukina" currently existing in yamatotakada city are all just fukko chimei(returning to an old name of the place)after the early modern times,based on the second theory.
achievements
there is no particular description about his achievements.
in 557 b.c.,he was formally installed as crown prince,then he ascended the throne in august,549 b.c.after the death of his father in the same year.
he died in the 38th year of his reign.
according to nihon shoki,he died at the age of 57(67?),while according to kojiki,he died at the age of 49.
misasagi(imperial mausoleum)location
emperor annei was buried in unebiyama no hitsujisaru no mihoto no inoe no misasagi.
in kojiki,there is a description that "his misasagi is located in unebiyama no mihoto."
currently,this misasagi is identified with the mountain shaped barrow popularly known as "aneiyama",which is located in yoshida cho,kashihara city,nara prefecture.
in genrokushuryo(the restoration of the imperial tombs in the genroku era of the edo period),the location of emperor annei's misasagi was mistaken,but in bakumatsushuryo(the restoration of the imperial tombs in the end of edo period)the current site was authorized as his misasagi.
the old well "mihotonoi",which is considered to be the origin of the title of this misasagi,is located in the town of the south of misasagi,and that well is managed by the imperial household agency with misasagi.
