emperor korei
emperor korei(342 b.c.-march 23,215 b.c.)is the seventh emperor(the period of reign:february 15,290 b.c.-march 23,215 b.c.)recorded in "kojiki" (the records of ancient matters)and "nihonshoki" (chronicles of japan).
he is also called oyamatonekohiko futoni no mikoto,or oyamatonekohikofutoni no mikoto(in kojiki).
the title 'yamatoneko' is used for the seventh emperor korei,the eighth emperor kogen,the ninth emperor kaika,and the twenty-second emperor seinei(kojiki),and is also found in the titles of such emperors as jito,monmu,genmei,and gensho(nihonshoki and "shoku nihongi" [chronicle of japan continued]),who existed in the period from the late seventh through the early eighth century when the compilation of the kojiki and nihonshoki was in the final stage.
therefore,it is highly likely that the titles for the seventh,eighth and ninth emperors were made with reference to the titles of the existent emperors in the later period when the compilation of the kojiki and nihonshoki was in the final stage.
he is one of so-called kesshi-hachidai(eight undocumented sovereigns)and is generally thought to have been nonexistent.
however,a genealogy indicating the existence of obiko no mikoto,the first prince of the emperor kogen,was engraved on kinsakumei tekken(an iron sword with gold-inlaid inscriptions)unearthed from inariyama-kofun tumulus;then more people now believe that the emperor kogen and his father,emperor korei actually existed.
imperial palace
his palace was iodo no miya(located at horaku-ji temple of kuroda,tawaramoto town,shiki county,nara prefecture according to legend).
achievements
no specific records exist.
he was formally installed as crown prince in february,317 b.c.
after the emperor koan passed away in 291 b.c.,he moved the palace to kuroda and was enthroned in january next year.
he passed away after 76 years of reign.
he was then at age 106 according to kojiki or 128 according to nihonshoki.
some people say that his too-long life and reign may have been brought by calculation methods such that a six-month period was counted as one year or the period of his reign included his father's period.
imperial mausoleum
he was buried in kataokaumasaka no misasagi(3-chome,ojimachihoncho,kitakatsuragi county,nara prefecture).
it is referred to as '片岡馬坂上' in kojiki.
