tsuburameo
tsuburameo was a member of the imperial family who lived during the kofun period(tumulus period).
it is described in ryonoshuge(commentaries on the civil statutes)that he was the child of emperor suinin,but since there was a member of the imperial family who had the same name that lived during the period of emperor yuraku,whether if they were the same person,or the name had been succeeded for a number of generations,or if the name of the emperor was a mistake,is unknown.
the latter is described in moso-ryo shuge koki(ancient commentaries on the codes regarding mourning and funeral),as the ancestor of asobibe.
from the beginning,hijikiwake from iga province served in hinkyu(funeral parlor)(arakinomiya or mogarinomiya)of the emperor,but when emperor yuraku passed away,the family had died out,so tsuburameo who chanced to have taken the daughter of hijikiwake as his wife was made to serve.
the emperor at the time(emperor seinei?)ordered "play until the hair on the hands and feet become as long as eight times the size of your fists",and the descendants of tsuburameo were spared of assignments and became asobibe for generations.
it was also said that asobibe was the descendant of emperor suinin.
besides his closest relatives,asobibe were those who seclude themselves in the death of an emperor;they had roles of going into the funeral parlor in pairs and served for the dead emperor;the one with the sword and the shield were called negi,and the one with the sword and provide sake and women were called yohi or yoshi,and performed ceremonies so that the spirit of the dead(the spirit of kyorei)would not do harm.
outside of the funeral parlor,the retainers perform the ceremony of shinobi or shinobigoto.
it is said that asobibe lived in kashihara city,yamato province,and it is identified with kashihara city shibuncho.
it is unknown whether if there were any common meanings between asobibe and the name asome that performed narukama shinji ritual.
further,hijiki shrine is enshrined in hijiki,iga city,mie prefecture.
the enshrined deity is hijiki no kami,and it may be the ancestor of the hijishi clan.
since the shrine still exist today,it is unknown whether if it was a mistake that the family has died out,or if the descendants of tsuburameo and his wife has expanded and worshipped hijiki no kami.
in addition,tsurugine no mikoto,a dojin(god that preside over soil)of kazuraki region is also enshrined together for some reason,and because emperor yuraku is involved,the relationship between tsuburameo and katsuragi no tsubura no oomi who had similar names,is interesting.
