kitsushi toin
kitsushi toin(fujiwara no kitsushi)(empress kitsushi)(1245-september 9,1272)was an empress of emperor kameyama during the kamakura period,and she was the birth mother of emperor gouda.
her nyoingo(a title of respect given to close female relatives of the emperor or a woman of comparable standing)was kyogokuin.
genealogy
she was the daughter of sadaijin(minister of the left),saneo toin.
her birth mother was the daughter of hoin(the highest rank among buddhist priests),kinshin tokudaiji,eishi tokudaiji.
the emperor fushimi's birth mother,inshi toin(genkimonin),and the emperor hanazono's birth mother,kishi toin(kenshinmonin)were her younger sisters by different mothers.
brief personal history
according to "masukagami" (the clear mirror),kitsushi had such a beautiful figure that her elder brother with the same mother,gon chunagon(provisional middle counselor),kinmune toin was amorous of her.
in december 1260,she served as nyogo-dai(court lady who acted for nyogo(a high-ranking lady in the court-a consort of an emperor))in daijosai(first ceremonial offering of rice by newly-enthroned emperor),and entered into court in january 1261,the following month.
she was given the title of nyogo.
in march,1261,she was installed as chugu(the second consort of an emperor),and a half year later,she became an empress when nyogo,kishi saionji was installed as empress in september,1261.
kishi was said to have little affection from the emperor as kishi was only ten years old then,while kitsushi had a lot of affection,even though she was four years older than the emperor.
afterward,she had two sons and a daughter with the emperor.
on september 9,1272,kitsushi passed away at the age of twenty eight.
on the day of her death,she was given the title ingo(a title of respect given to close female relatives of the emperor or a woman of comparable standing),and was referred to as kyogokuin.
her grave was rengebuji no misasagi in ukyo ward,kyoto city.
later,emperor gouda(kitsushi's birth child)was also buried in the same place.
prince and princess who were birth children of kitsushi
the first princess:imperial princess kenshi(1262-1264)
the first prince:imperial prince tomohito(1265-1267)
the second prince:imperial prince yohito(emperor gouda,1267-1324)
