imperial princess yoshiko
imperial princess yoshiko(march 11,1779-august 11,1846)was a member of the imperial family member during the edo period.
she was chugu(the second consort of the emperor)of the one hundred and nineteenth emperor kokaku.
her childhood's name was onna ichinomiya.
her nyoingo title(a title of respect given to close female relatives of the emperor or a woman of comparable standing)was shinseiwain.
imperial princess yoshiko
genealogy
she was the first princess of the hundred and eighteenth emperor gomomozono.
her mother was sessho dajo daijin(regent and the grand minister),uchisaki konoe's daughter,nyogo(a court title given to a consort of the emperor)koreko nonoe(seikamonin).
after her mother,koreko died,she was brought up by her father's grandmother,tomiko ichijo(kyoraimonin),who became her foster mother.
background
her father,emperor gomomozono died in the year when the princess was born,since the emperor had no other children,but imperial princess yoshiko,the imperial throne was succeeded by sachinomiya morohito(later called emperor kokaku),who was the sixth prince of kaninnomiya imperial prince sukehito of the collateral line after he was welcomed(adopted)into the imperial family.
at this time,it was planned for imperial princess yoshiko to make an imperial consort's bridal entry for the new emperor into the court to keep the imperial blood line for imperial succession,since she was the only person who had emperor nakamikado's blood line,therefore,it was said sachinomiya morohito who was not married,was chosen as the new emperor.
in december 1781,one year after the princess was born,she received title as imperial princess,and also received the rank of jisango(one of the official ranks for imperial family and court nobles during the heian period)by the emperor in december 1794,she then made an imperial consort's bridal entry into court on 31 march,1794.
she was appointed as chugu in april 6,1794.
by the way it was indeed the first time for the imperial princess to be officially appointed as chugu in four hundred and sixty years,since emperor godaigo's chugu,imperial princess junshi(emperor gofushimi's first princess,shinmuromachiin)
in january 1800,six years after the princess made an imperial consort's bridal entry into the court,she gave birth to the third prince,imperial prince atsuhito.
the prince was appointed as crown prince,however he died young in april in the same year.
due to the prince's death,instead,it was decided for tenji(naishinosuke)(a court lady of the first rank),higashikyogokuin's fourth prince,yutanomiya ayahito to become crown prince in july 1807,the princess announced yutanomiya as her own son at this time.
after that she again gave birth to the seventh prince,imperial prince toshihito in january 1816,however the young prince also died when he was just six years old in february 1821,due to this,the imperial succession from emperor nakamikado finally discontinued.
by the way,there was an article in "omoinomama no ki" that the princess had mental problem and once she wondered around and went out of the palace,gosakuramachiin(the retired emperor gosakuramachi)was furious about this.
after two years of emperor kokaku's enthronement,the prince became empress dowager in march 1820,she then entered into the priesthood in january 1841 when the emperor died,she received the nyoin go title and was named shinseiwain.
she died on august 11,1846 at thirty eight,she was entombed in nochi no tsukinowa no misasagi in higashiyama ward,kyoto city,kyoto prefecture.
other
there are some people who talk about imperial princess yoshiko as a precedent to avoid the crisis of discontinuation of imperial succession when there was a recent argument about improving the imperial family(household)law.
