imperial prince kachonomiya hirotsune
imperial prince kachonomiya hirotsune(april 19,1851-may 24,1876)was a member of the imperial family of japan and a military man of the imperial japanese navy.
his official rank was gijo(one of the three important official titles),the chief of accountancy,and a rear admiral.
he was an adopted child of iemochi tokugawa.
he was the twelfth prince of imperial prince fushiminomiya kuniie and his mother was ie no nyobo(a lady-in-waiting),nobuko horiuchi.
he established kacho no miya.
his title in childhood was takanomiya and,in 1852,he became a priest and monzeki(successor of a temple)of chion-in temple,taking a second name,sonshu.
in august,1860,he became an adopted child of emperor komei and in november of the same year,he was given the title of imperial prince.
in 1868,he returned from priesthood by imperial order,founded a family,and changed his name back to hirotsune with miyago(reigning name)being kachonomiya.
the miyago is connected with chion-in.
he successively held positions of goyo-gakari(a general affairs official of the imperial household)of the school of national learning,danjoin(president of the board of censors),gijo,and the chief of accountancy,and,in addition,he studied abroad in the united states study about navy to become a rear admiral in 1876,but on may 24 of the same year,he passed away.
career
blood relationship
the imperial prince married ikuko,the eldest daughter of count toshihisa nanbu,who gave birth to imperial prince kacho no miya hiroatsu.
parents:imperial prince fushiminomiya kuniie-wife hiroko takatsukasa-(biological mother)nobuko horiuchi
brothers:imperial prince yamashinanomiya akira-imperial prince shogoinnomiya yoshikoto-manjuinnomiya yuzuhito nyudo shinno-imperial prince kuninomiya asahiko-son-imperial prince fushiminomiya sadanori-son-imperial prince komatsunomiya akihito-imperial prince kitashirakawanomiya yoshihisa-son-son-imperial prince kachonomiya hirotsune-imperial prince kitashirakawanomiya satonari-imperial prince fushiminomiya sadanaru-ienori kiyosu-imperial prince kaninnomiya kotohito-imperial prince higashifushiminomiya yorihito(sisters not included).
wife:the wife of imperial prince hirotsune,imperial princess ikuko
child
prince royal:imperial prince kachonomiya hiroatsu(mother:imperial princess ikuko)
