emperor ankan
emperor ankan(466-january 25,536)was the 27th emperor(whose reign lasted from march 10,531 to december 17,535).
he was also called hirokunioshitakekanahi no sumeramikoto or magari no oe no miko.
another name
his japanese-style posthumous name was shown as hirokumioshitakekanahi no mikoto in "kojiki" (the records of ancient matters),and as hirokunioshitakekanahi no sumeramikoto in "nihonshoki" (chronicles of japan).
in "nihonshoki" (chronicles of japan),his posthumous name was referred as magari no oe no miko(it was also called 'magari no oine no miko').
genealogy
he was the eldest child of emperor keitai.
his mother was menokohime from owari province.
he had neither princes nor princesses.
although toyohiko no miko was referred as his son in "honcho koin jounroku" (the emperor's family tree,made in the muromachi period),the reason for which was not clear.
the imperial palace
the imperial capital was magari no kanahashi no miya.
(it could be present-day magarikawa-cho,kashihara city,nara prefecture.)
although 'kanahashi village(in takaichi county)' (present-day kashihara city)lasted from 1889 to 1956,the name kanahashi was a restored place name named after this reigning name in modern times,and now,it can be seen only in a few places such as a station(jr kanahashi station).
achievement
he ascended the throne after being handed it over from emperor keitai.
at that time he was already 66 years old,after 4 years of his short reigning,passed away.
as for events during the reign of emperor ankan,setting up a large number(more than 30 locations)of miyake(imperial-controlled territory)and corresponding deployment of inukaibe(corporation of dogkeepers)can be mentioned.
according to the 'kudarahonki' (original records of paekche)quoted by "nihonshoki" (chronicles of japan),a legend has it that emperor keitai and prince died together around 531,and another theory has it that after the death of emperor keitai,two imperial courts existed at the same time,one was reigned by emperor ankan and emperor senka,the other was reigned by emperor kinmei,and they had a domestic conflict('shingai coup' theory).
in future generations,as emperor ankan was identified with zao gongen(the principal image of the kimpusen zaodo,and the highest worship object of the shugendo)according to the teaching of syncretization of shinto with buddhism,the shinto shrines which conventionally assumed zao gongen as an enshrined deity,replaced zao gobgen with emperor ankan as an enshrined deity after the separation of buddhism and shintoism in the meiji period.
imperial mausoleum
the emperor was entombed in furuichi takaya no oka no misasagi(the furuichi takaya hill).
his tomb was presumed to be takaya tsukiyama tumulus(122m long keyhole-shaped mound)in 5-chome,furuichi,habikino city,osaka prefecture.
