teiki(records of emperor's family tree)
teiki(records of emperor's family tree)
teiki is a field which collects the genealogy of successive emperors or imperial family trees.
it is one of japanese history books which are said to have existed before "a record of ancient matters" and "chronicles of japan."
explained in this section.
the teiki were books compiled by emperor tenchi's two children,imperial prince kawashima and prince osakabe under the imperial order since 681,and are thought to be records of the transmission of the genealogy of the imperial family.
it was scattered and ultimately lost,and has not been passed down.
it is said that emperor tenmu made hieda no are recite the teiki from memory along with the "kyuji" (mythical tradition),and later this was said to be the basic historical material for the compilation of the later kojiki(records of ancient matters)and nihonshoki(chronicles of japan).
a generally-accepted theory is that the contents of the teiki is the kotofu(genealogy of the imperial family).
however,there are various theories as follows.
a theory that it indicates vol.2 of the "kojiki" (the records of ancient matters)
besides a theory that says the teiki indicated only a specific book of ancient japanese literature,there is a theory that says the teiki indicated not only a specific book but also the whole books which record the tradition of the genealogy of the imperial family
a theory that says transmission of the genealogy of the emperor which have not been included in books are also called teiki
a theory that says the teiki and kyuji were not separate books,but was one book
and such exists.
furthermore,
"tennou hitsugi" and "senki" (pre-existing documents)written in the introduction of the "kojiki"
"teio honki" (the chronicle of emperors)written in the nihonshoki emperor kinmei 2nd year march article
tokyoku shidai of the founders of the imperial family' noted as 'referred to as "hitsugi" in old days' in the article of november,688 in nihonshoki
"teioki nihonsho" and "nihon teiki" which appear in the shosoin bunsho
"teioki" in the nihon shoki private records "a" verison
it is a generally-accepted theory that these are identical.
however,there are opinions that the "teiki," "teio honki," and "senki," which have the letter "ki" meaning 'nenki' and the "hitsugi" which does not have the letter "ki" should be thought separately.
further,there are opinions that the 'common noun' which is thought to be the generic term for several books or documents that satisfy fixed conditions,such as the "teiki," which every family was thought to have,and the "teio honki" (chronicle of emperors)which existing contents were supposed to be different,and the 'proper noun' which is thought to describe specific books that are complied at a specific point of time called "teiki no hitsugi" should be clearly distinguished.
also,from the fact that even though the names differ slightly,in the introduction of the kojiki,usually it is recorded with two history books set side by side like the "teiki" and "kyuji," there is a viewpoint that they were not just separate records,but was originally written with the premise that these would be combined to make one record,and it exists as a 'japanese style biographical historiography' different from the chinese biographical historiography which combines two history books,
