imperial prince(fushiminomiya)fushimi sadanaru
imperial prince fushimi sadanaru(fushiminomiya sadanarushinno)was(june 9,1858 to february 4,1923)a japanese imperial family and a member of the imperial japanese army(ija).
imperial prince fushimi sadanaru was the fourteenth son of the imperial prince fushiminomiya kuniie,and his mother was hiroko takatsukasa,a daughter of masahiro takatsukasa.
imperial prince fushimi sadanaru was the 22nd successor of the fushimi no miya family;at a later time,would become the 24th successor of the fushimi no miya family.
the official court rank of the imperial prince fushimi sadanaru was general in the imperial japanese army(ija),orders of the chrysanthemum,received the golden pheasant kunsho(medal),and minister of the interior.
biography
in childhood the imperial prince fushimi sadanaru went by the name of 'atsu no miya.'
imperial prince(fushiminomiya sadanaru)first became the successor of the myoho-in temple,and then later,he was adopted by the emperor komei.
imperial prince(fushiminomiya sadanaru)returned to secular life because of kokyo(death of a man of upper than third rank)of the fushiminomiya imperial prince sadanori,then imperial prince(fushiminomiya sadanaru)took over as head of the family of fushiminomiya.
in 1864,imperial prince fushimi sadanaru once separated from the fushiminomiya and returned in headship to the family of his father imperial prince fushiminomiya kuniie.
then,once again in 1872,imperial prince fushimi sadanaru took over as head of the family of fushiminomiya becoming the 24th successor of the family.
imperial prince fushimi sadanaru was the only member of the imperial family who served at the minister of interior's office,or to be assigned as the highest ranking officer in the japanese imperial army,that of general.
furthermore,imperial prince fushimi sadanaru successively worked in and held positions in multiple organizations,such as a president of the dai nihon nokai(japanese national agricultural and farmers association),the dai nihon silk foundation(japanese national silk foundation),the zaigo gunjinkai(the association of reservists),riken,saiseikai(currently,social welfare organization saiseikai imperial gift foundation inc.)and others.
additionally,at a later time,the imperial prince tomohito took the office of president of saiseikai.
imperial prince fushimi sadanaru had hobbies in many fields such as the japanese horse-back archery technique,igo(board game of capturing territory),music,the art of japanese archery,billiards,shodo(calligraphy),application or collection of art works(calligraphic works,paintings,and swords),gardening enthusiast(trees,stones,and flowing plants),and others.
thus,imperial prince fushimi sadanaru set up a yaba(archery range)place and a place for playing billiards,this was in his second residence the zuikakuso villa,located in inubosaki,choshi city("sadanaru shinnou itsuwa[the anecdote of imperial prince sadanaru]").
career
imperial prince fushimi sadanaru was born in 1858 and then named,atsu no miya(prince atsu).
in 1860,imperial prince fushimi sadanaru became the successor of myoho-in temple,and some time later he was adopted by the emperor komei.
in 1862,imperial prince fushimi sadanaru returned to the fushimi no miya family and then became the successor of fushimi no miya(the twenty second).
in 1864,imperial prince fushimi sadanaru left the fushimi no miya family.
in 1871,imperial prince fushimi sadanaru was given the title of imperial prince and then given the real name of sadanaru,for his genpuku(to celebrate one's coming of age)ceremony,and was given the imperial court ranking of nihon(the second court rank for an imperial prince).
in 1872,imperial prince fushimi sadanaru moved to tokyo and became the successor of fushimi no miya(the twenty fourth).
in 1873,imperial prince fushimi sadanaru entered the army cadet school.
in 1875,imperial prince fushimi sadanaru entered the imperial japanese army academy;it was at this time his first prince(son)was born,named prince hiroyasu.
in 1876,imperial prince fushimi sadanaru married imperial princess arisugawa toshiko,a sister of imperial prince arisugawanomiya taruhito.
in 1877,imperial prince fushimi sadanaru went to the war front during the satsuma rebellion(seinan war).
in 1878,imperial prince fushimi sadanaru received the promotion to captain in the imperial army,and then attended the imperial japanese army academy.
in 1879,(after relocation to the nisi ogawa-machi in kanda ward and then fujimi in kojimachi ward)imperial prince fushimi sadanaru moved into this house address,at kioi-cho 4,kojimachi,tokyo.
in 1880,imperial prince fushimi sadanaru was employed by the philanthropic society(in japanese,hakuaisha;later,it became the japanese red cross society).
in 1881,imperial prince fushimi sadanaru was promoted the rank of major in the infantry of the imperial army;he then became the president of the dai nihon sanrinkai(the japan forestry association).
in 1883,imperial prince fushimi sadanaru was appointed to the position of honorary memberships in the asia kyokai(asian association)and tokyo chigaku kyokai(tokyo geographical society).
in 1884,imperial prince fushimi sadanaru was promoted to the rank of lieutenant colonel in the infantry of the imperial army.
in 1886,imperial prince fushimi sadanaru was elevated to the position of grand cordon in the supreme order of the chrysanthemum(in japanese,daikuni kikkasho;the highest cordon and honor in japanese citizenry).
in 1887,imperial prince fushimi sadanaru became a member of the joshi kyoiku shorei kai(institution for women education in japan;later,tokyo jogakkan schools for women).
then,he was promoted to imperial guard infantry fourth division regimental commander,holding the post of colonel in the infantry of the imperial army.
in the same year,a game was held with the emperor in attendance at the fushimi no miya estate;there he watched a kenkichi sakakibara, 'the last expert swordsman,' perform the kabuto wari(helmet cutting).
in 1889,imperial prince fushimi sadanaru was promoted to the rank of major general of imperial army,that same year he became a president of the third national industrial exhibitions.
in 1890,imperial prince fushimi sadanaru presented to at the house of peers of japan(in japanese,kizokuin).
in 1892,imperial prince fushimi sadanaru was received appointment as the president of kyoto art association;becoming an honorary member of the japanese physical education association.
in the same year,he held the rank of major general in imperial army and as a brigade commander was charged with the infantry's fourth division of the imperial army.
in 1884,imperial prince fushimi sadanaru was assigned to the liaodong peninsula,commanding the battle for kinshujo castle,during japanese-sino war.
in 1895,prince sadanaru led the imperial army infantry's fourth division brigade,landing on hotei harbor,in chiayi city,taiwan.
later,he became brigade commander of the first division,imperial army infantry.
in 1896,in the position of representative for the emperor meiji,prince sadanaru attended the enthronement ceremony for the russian emperor nicholai ii,as the official representative of the emperor meiji.
in 1898,it was at this time that prince sadanaru received promotion to lieutenant general of the imperial army and appointed commander of the himeji tenth division(japanese imperial army).
in 1900,prince sadanaru had a tairin(visit by the empress,or the crown prince,or imperial families)visit for the opening ceremony of a relocated school,kobe shogyo koshu-jyo(kobe commercial training institute;currently,kobe commercial high school).
it was then that prince sadanaru became an honorary member of the empire of japan marine rescue japan(in japanese,dai nihon teikoku suinan kyusai kai;currently,marine rescue japan)and nippon kaiji kyokai(also known as nk or classnk).
in 1898,prince sadanaru received appointment to commander of the first division(japanese imperial arm).
in 1903,prince sadanaru became the president of the dai nippon butoku kai(greater japan martial virtue society).
then,prince sadanaru had a tairin visit to the inubosaki light house of choshi city and commissioned to begin the construction of his second residence,zuikakuso villa,in choshi city.
in 1904,prince sadanaru returned to liaodong peninsula,this time for the japanese-russo war.
later,he became president of the dai nihon nokai(japanese national agricultural and farmers association).
in the same year,prince sadanaru was promoted to the general in the imperial japanese army,then to severe in the imperial headquarters,later would leave for the united states.
in 1905,prince sadanaru returned to japan from the united sates;he would then become president of the dai nihon silk foundation(japanese national silk foundation).
in the same year,construction of zuikakuso villa was completed;and prince fushimi sadanaru became a military sangi(councilors).
in 1907,the emperor meiji sent prince sadanaru to england;prince sadanaru was a torei (return salute)ambassador.
upon his return from england,prince sadanaru visited honolulu.
he granted two hundred dollars to the japanese community in honolulu(later,the japanese community established 'the prince fushimi memorial scholarship foundation' based upon this grant money.)
after prince sadanaru returned to japan,he became the president of the japanese exposition and became an honor member of the cambridge association.
in 1909,prince sadanaru became the honorary president of the franco-japanese society,then journeyed to the qing dynasty(in japanese,shinkoku;china under the manchus)returning later.
prince sadanaru became an honorary president of the japan-british exhibition(1910).
in 1910,prince sadanaru left for england.
on his way back,prince sadanaru visited toua doubun shoin(dong a dong wen shu yuen da xue;east asian literary school).
after prince sadanaru returned to japan,he became the president of the british society.
in 1911,prince sadanaru became president of the social welfare organization saiseikai imperial gift foundation inc.
in 1912,prince sadanaru served as president of the taiso(imperial mourning)when the emperor meiji met his demise.
later,he attended in the minister of interior's office.
in 1914,prince sadanaru was promoted to fleet admiral,but resigned later.
he then became president of the kokusan shorei kai(currently,japan industrial association).
in 1915,prince sadanaru in his role as military sangi(a councilor)attended the supreme military council,later he was discharged,and then he received the title of fleet admiral.
prince sadanaru became the president of tokyo kaikosha(the military club).
then,he served the taireishi sousai(president of the administrative organization to oversee an imperial or state ceremony)as the president when the emperor taisho had his enthronement ceremony.
later,he became the president of the meiji-jingu shirine zouei kyoku(meiji-jingu shrine construction department)and meiji-jingu shirine hosan kai(meiji-jingu shrine support association).
in 1916,prince sadanaru was presented with the collar of the supreme order of the chrysanthemum.
in 1917,prince sadanaru became the president of riken.
in 1923,prince sadanaru became ill suddenly,his condition would worsen,becoming critical.
in 1923,prince sadanaru status changed to kokyo(death of a man of upper than third rank).
in 1923,prince sadanaru's was given a state funeral,with burial in the graveyard of the toshimagaoka cemetery.
family blood linage
the father and mother:imperial prince fushiminomiya kuniie and hiroko takatsukasa
brothers:imperial prince yamashina no miya akira,imperial prince shogoin no miya yoshikoto,imperial prince manshuin no miya jonin nyudo,imperial prince kuni no miya asahiko,son,imperial prince fushimi no miya sadanori,son,imperial prince komatsu no miya akihito,imperial prince kitashirakawa no miya yoshihisa,son,son,imperial prince kacho no miya hirotsune,imperial prince kitashirakawa no miya satonari,fushiminomiya imperial prince sadanaru,ienori kiyosu,imperial prince kaninnomiya kotohito,and imperial prince higashifushimi no miya yorihito(daughters were omitted)
wife:princess of the prince sadanaru toshiko(a daughter of arisugawa no miya imperial prince takahito),nyobo(court ladies)chiyoko kono,and nyobo naetsuko masuyama.
children:
the first prince:prince fushimi hiroyasu(hiroyasu-o,1875-1946)(mother:nyobo chiyoko kono)
the second prince:prince fushimi kunika(kunika-o,1880-1933)(mother:princess toshiko)
the third prince:prince fushimi akinori(akinori-o,1881-1883)
the first princes:princess sachiko yamauchi(sachiko jo-o,married count toyokage yamauchi,1885-1966)(mother:nyobo naetuko masuyama).
