hikoushio
hikoushio(also pronounced hikousi no okimi;date of birth and death unknown)was a member of an imperial family(royal family)in fifth century.
also,hikoushio was known as ushi no okimi.
his father was oi no okimi and his mother was 'kurume no mikoto.'
hikoushio was a great-great-grandchild of the emperor ojin.
hikoushio married furihime no mikoto(her father was ohachigimi),a descendent and a grand child of the emperor suinin(seventh generation descended from him)and as his princess,she bore him a son, 'odo no okimi' (later,he became the emperor keitai.).
the authors and editors on the book of "nihonshoki(chronicles of japan)" and "shaku nihongi(annotated text of the nihon shoki)" often consulted the "joguki(record of the crown prince)" for reference when writing articles on those same books.
then,according to the joguki,a written article of unidentifiable origin,stated the following:when hikoushio was in takashima county of omi province,he married furihime,who was in mikuni sakanakai(sakai county,fukui prefecture);and then she gave birth to odo no okimi.
however,the young son,while still a child of early years,lost his father hikoushio,who faced kokyo(death of a man of upper than third rank).
furihime retuned to her home,takamuku(maruoka-cho,sakai county),and then reared and attended to the needs of odo no okimi.
because the emperor buretsu passed away without an apparent heir to succeed him in 506,odo no okimi,who was fifty-seven years old at that time,was recommended to be okimi(great king)by otomo no kanamura and mononobe no arakahi.
then,odo no okimi ascended to the throne(the emperor keitai).
according to kiki("a record of ancient matter" and "chronicles of japan"),the emperor keitai was a fifth generation descendent grandchild of the emperor ojin.
in 'joguki,' there was a written genealogy, 'homutawake no miko(ojin)-wakanuke futamata no miko-oiratsuko(ohodo no okimi)-oi no okimi(oi no okimi[私斐王])-okimi-odo no okimi(keitai).'
however,some historians and scholars strongly argued for their opinions,as to the possibility that the genealogy might be a fabrication,which was intended to declare the legitimacy in the enthronement of the emperor keitai.
thus,some historians and scholars searched for support in fact,that the actual origin of the emperor keitai accession,may have been the powerful local clans such as,the okinaga clan,and this theory was supported through historical study.
additionally,there is tanaka ozuka kofun(enpun[a circular type tumuli];the diameter is fifty-eight meters long;and the familiar name is ushizuka)which is believed to be a tomb of hikoushio,located in adogawa-cho,takashima city,shiga prefecture.
the imperial household agency manages the tanaka ozuka kofun as a primary referable mausoleum.
however,there is the kamoinariyama kofun(the keyhole-shaped mound;the length of which is forty-five meters;it is also called,kasoryo[temporally burial of emperor's tomb])in takashima city,and some historians and scholars believe in the theory that kamoinariyama kofun is the tomb of hikoushio.
