oshisaka no hikohito no oenomiko
oshisaka no hikohito no oenomiko(year of birth and death unknown)was a member of the imperial family in the asuka period.
he was also referred to as:maroko no oenomiko,taishi no hikohito oenomiko(太子彦人皇子),oshisaka no hikohito no taishi,皇祖大兄.
he was the first son of the emperor bidatsu and his mother was hiro hime,a daughter of okinaga no mate no okimi.
he was the father of the emperor jomei and chinu no okimi.
summary
he was the most powerful person among the bindatsu imperial line which was not the descendant of the soga clan,and owned independent financial foundations,including osakabe(the otsusakabe clan)and marukobe,and ran mimata no miya(kawai-cho,nara prefecture)away from the imperial capital.
after the emperor yomei died in 587,he was raised up as the successor to the throne,but the soga clan,the opposition appeared,and no further activities of oshisaka no hikohito no oenomiko is found in any historical documents;it is assumed that he was assassinated by the soga clan.
but he must have been alive for a while after the empress suiko was enthroned in 592,according to the birth year of the emperor jomei,calculated back based on "ichidai yoki(summary chronicle of each reign), "honcho koin jounroku" (the emperor's family tree,made in the muromachi period)and the existence of his brother;it is assumed that he held the equal power as a candidate of the successor to the throne with takeda no miko,the soga clan origin,and the prince shotoku.
since the mibube department to support the successor to the throne(umayado)was established in 607,it is assumed that he died before that.
according to shoryoryo(the bureau for managing imperial mausoleums)of the "engishiki" (an ancient book for codes and procedures on national rites and prayers),he was buried in narai no haka(makino tumulus in koryo-cho,nara prefecture).
oshisaka no hikohito no oenomiko's hereditary private properties such as otsusakabe and marukobe were called '皇祖大兄御名入部,' and handed over to his son of the emperor jomei and the grandson of naka no oe no oji(later the emperor tenchi),and it is believed that such private properties were returned to the nation after taika no kaishin(the great reformation of the taika era)(april 13,646 section in "nihonshoki" [chronicles of japan]).
it is said that even after the death of hikohito no oenomiko,the prince line was able to oppose the soga clan and the jogu royal family to put the emperor jomei in the throne and carry out taika no kaishin;which was based on such financial foundations.
his consort and children
mainly based on "kojiki" (the records of ancient matters).
empress:nukadehime no miko(takara no miko,tamura no miko
the imperial princess of the emperor bidatsu).
tamura no miko(the emperor jomei)
nakatsu miko
tara no miko
empress:omata no miko
(younger sister of aya no kimi)
chinu no miko(also written智奴王),the father of the emperor kogyoku and the emperor kotoku.
kuwatano miko(female)
empress:sakurai no yumihari no himemiko(also written as桜井玄王.
the imperial princess of the emperor bidatsu).
yamashiro no miko
kasanui no miko
empress:oharita no himemiko
(the imperial princess of the emperor bidatsu)
it is certain that kutarano miko was reported in "shinsen shojiroku" (newly compiled register of clan names and titles of nobility)as a grandson of the emperor bidatsu on sakyo kobetsu(clans branched out from the imperial family)was a son of oshisaka no hikohito no oenomiko,but since his name was not mentioned in the genealogy in "kojiki" (the records of ancient matters),there is a theory that kutara no miko was the same person as tara no miko(ku from kutara was dropped)and chinu no okimi.
