mikotonori
"mikotonori" (詔or御言宣),or "omikoto" (大御言)was a document of the emperor's words or orders to be directly conveyed.
sento no mikotonori(the relocation of the capital)was the example.
the written form was called "shosho" (imperial rescript in english).
mainly,it was widely and commonly used to convey the emperor's intention.
the imperial rescript under a system of centralized government based on the ritsuryo codes.
the formats of the imperial rescript were established by the kushikiryo in the system of centralized government based on the ritsuryo codes.
it was used to pronounce the important issues the emperor did not sign,but put a date on a draft(gokakujitsu)and then pass on the final draft(gokakuka).
it also required signatures of all the court nobles.
the imperial rescript required a consensus among the emperor and all the court nobles,and because of its complex procedure,it was used only on the ritual events such as accession and kaigen(changing the name of an era).
a naiki of nakatsukasa sho(department)created a draft of the imperial rescript first,the emperor put in the date(gokakujitsu),3 supervisors(kami(kyo),taifu,sho)of nakatsukasa sho(department)signed under their kanisei(surname of the official rank)that the naiki wrote down,and put 'sen,' 'bu,' 'gyo' under each of their signatures.
this was called 'anbun.'
next was to create a copy of the anbun as the draft for the final draft sent to the grand council of state after putting the emperor's gyoji(the imperial seal)with the supervisors' signatures again,geki wrote down the daijin's and dainagon's(a chief councilor of state)kanisei(surname of the official rank)and the date,and the dainagon confirmed this to the emperor with the daijin's and dainagon's(below grand minister of state)signatures after it being submitted to the meeting of the grand council of state with a ratification request line to the emperor.
the emperor put "pass" next to the date on the draft of the final draft(gokakuka).
then the draft of the final draft became the formal imperial rescript,but a copy of the imperial rescript was created and the daijokanpu(a formal document to issue orders)was also created by benkan to order the enforcement of the imperial rescript.
then the contents of the imperial rescript were orally conveyed(ko)as a senmyo(a type of document to give the emperor's order)and daijokanpu was delivered and the imperial rescript was issued.
the imperial rescript under the constitution of the empire of japan
under the constitution of the empire of japan,among the emperor's action,it was established as 'in order to convey the emperor's important affairs and intentions regarding prerogative enforcement,the imperial rescript shall be used,excluding other forms.'
the imperial rescript was largely divided into 'kyumu shosho' (imperial rescript of the imperial princes' household affairs)that relates to the imperial household and 'seimu shosho' (imperial rescript of state affairs)that was issued at the time of the emperor's prerogative invocation based on the constitution,but a specific type and procedure was established by 'kushikiryo.'
the imperial rescript under the constitution of japan
there is no common law requirement concerning the imperial rescript under the constitution of japan.
only the imperial rescript of the diet convocation is clearly established by law.
in addition,other than the diet convocation,public announcement to enforce dissolution of the house of representatives,general election of a house of representatives member,and regular election of upper house members are also conducted by the imperial rescript.
the emperor puts his signature(onmyo)and gyoji(the imperial seal),and the prime minister puts his signature(countersignature)on the imperial rescript.
