prince masami
prince masami(798-may 863)(old calendar)was an imperial family member during the early heian period.
he was the seventh prince of the imperial prince manda(emperor kanmu's prince).
his children are taira no sumiyo,onago(emperor koko's kokyu(woman live in the imperial palace who were lower in rank than the empress),mother of saiin,(an unmarried princess who,in former times,was sent by the emperor to serve at kamo shrine)imperial prince bokushi).
his descendants received the surname of kanmu-heishi(taira clan)after that.
he was bright since he was small,and he passed the examination of daigakuryo when he was eighteen years old.
in 829 he received jushiinoge(junior fourth rank,lower grade).
he successively held the position of danjo dai(minister of justice),gyobu no taifu(assistant to minister of court)and kyoshiki(minister of the judiciary).
in 840 he was appointed to state councilor.
in 841 he became the governor of yamato province.
in 842 he became benkan(an official position in charge of making documents or communicating with other officials or other provinces).
the prince questioned the details of the treason planned by tachibana no hayanari,which was called the showa incident that happened during august and september 842.
he became denshi chokan of yamashiro province in 844.
in 845 horyu-ji temple monk,zengai sued shonagon,tomo no tadana because of an injustice.
there were six members of benkan,including sadaiben,prince masami and ushoben,tomo no yoshio.
the five benkan members,including prince masami,accepted this petition,yoshio said the monk presenting the petition with their position was against the regulations covering monks and nuns,thus,he insisted,that accepting the petition was illegal.
since there was no record of the clause of the regulation covering the monks and nuns in fact being used in the past,five benkan including prince masami tried to begin the trial,however yoshio brought a charge against prince masami and others for accepting an illegal petition.
it caused an argument on the principle of law,myobo hakase(an expert of law at the university under the government based on the ritsuryo legal codes),sanuki no naganao was to judge the petition and made a decision,as a result,that accepting the petition was decided to be illegal.
five benkan,including prince masami,lost one official title(rank)of nobility.
he was given shoshiinoge(senior fourth rank,lower grade)in 848 and became jibukyo(the minister of an official position in charge of surnames,succession,marriage and funerals of officials who were higher than fifth rank).
he was given jushiinojo(junior fourth rank,upper grade)in 851.
he was appointed tanbanokami(the lord of tanba)in 852,and he made a great success in civil administration.
in 855,he received shoshiinoge(senior fourth rank,lower grade)and became dazai no sotsu(the minister of dazaifu).
he worked in dazaifu for six years and returned to kyoto in 860.
he became a state councilor in 861,and became daijo daihitsu(assistant to the minister of justice).
in 863 he also became the gon no kami of echizen province(the minister of echizen province).
he died in may 863(old calendar).
