imperial prince iyo
imperial prince iyo(?-december 18,807)is believed to be the third imperial prince of emperor kanmu,but there are different theories.
his mother was fujiwara no yoshiko,the daughter of fujiwara no korekimi,who belonged to the southern house of the fujiwara clan.
a short biography
he was appointed as the nakatsukasa-kyo(minister of the ministry of central affairs)and dazai no sochi(governor-general of the dazai-fu offices(local government office in kyushu region))in 806.
however,in the following year,807,he was confined in kawara-dera temple(or gufuku-ji temple)with his mother,fujiwara no yoshiko,on the suspicion of being the mastermind of a rebellion.
he killed himself by taking poison after fasting.
it is believed that he fell from power due to a scheme plotted by fujiwara no munenari,who was manipulated by fujiwara no nakanari of the ceremonial house of the fujiwara clan,a close advisor of emperor heizei who was the older half-brother(by the same father)of imperial prince iyo.
this is called "iyo shinno no hen" (conspiracy of iyo imperial prince).
later,the imperial prince's innocence was proved,and ultimately,in 839,he was given the posthumous rank of ippon(first order of an imperial prince).
descendants
imperial prince iyo had three children,all of whom were banished to be exiled to the farthest distant island after the suicide of the imperial prince.
once the imperial prince's innocence had been proved later,emperor saga called the children back to heian-kyo(the ancient capital of japan in the current kyoto)and returned to them the property of the imperial prince.
after being granted jushiinoge(junior fourth rank,lower grade)in 826,the second prince takae(802-858)served as the inaba no kami(governor of inaba province)and otoneri-no-kami(director of the bureau of royal attendants).
he was also promoted to jusanmi(junior third rank)in 854.
moreover,he successively assumed the posts of the minister of finance and the minister of the imperial household under the ritsuryo system(a system of centralized government based on the ritsuryo code).
fujiwara no tameyo(or shiro ukena),who was believed to have founded the iyo tachibana clan in iyo province as well as the ochi clan,was a child of imperial prince iyo.
it is also believed that he was treated as a prince on emperor saga's instructions and bestowed the fujiwara family name.
