sahohime no mikoto
empress sahohime no mikoto(year of birth unknown-november,25 b.c.)was the first wife of emperor suinin(she became empress on march 29,28 b.c.),and she is mentioned in the kojiki(records of ancient matters)and the nihonshoki(chronicles of japan).
she was the heroine of the tale 'rebellion of sahohiko no mikoto,' which is said to be the most romantic story in all the episodes compiled in "kojiki" (the records of ancient matters).
she was involved and died in the rebellion provoked by her elder brother sahohiko no miko(狭穂彦王:also written as沙本毘古).
in "nihonshoki" (chronicles of japan),her name is written as狭穂姫命,while in the kojiki,her name is expressed as沙本毘売命or佐波遅比売命(in the latter two cases the name is also pronounced as sahohime no mikoto).
his father was hikoimasu no miko(emperor kaika's son)and her mother was sahonookuramitome(kasuga tatekuni katsutome's daughter).
her brothers by the same mother were sahohiko no miko,the ancestor of kusakabe no muraji(one of the most privileged surname given to local lords during the yamato dynasty)and kainokuni no miyatsuko(local lord of kai province);murobiko no miko,the ancestor of wakasa no mimi no wake;and ogiho no okimi,the ancestor of kazuno no wake and chikatsuomi no kano no wake.
homutsuwake no mikoto(誉津別命:also written as本牟智和気御子)was her son.
hibasuhime,the next empress of emperor suinin,was a daughter of hikoimasu no miko's son tanbanomichinoshi no kami,and a niece of sahohime no mikoto.
she has the same name as the goddess of spring sahohime(written as佐保姫),but she has nothing to do with the goddess.
see the section of 'saho-hime.'
rebellion of sahohiko no miko
outline of the story
the following outline is based on the story compiled in the kojiki.
the names are written following the writings in the kojiki.
sahohime was the empress of emperor suinin.
however,one day his elder brother sahohiko no miko asked her, 'which of us do you love more,your husband or me?,' and when she answered, ' brother,i love you more,' he handed a knife and ordered her to assassinate the emperor.
when the emperor,who was deeply in love with her,fell a sleep on the empress's lap peacefully,the empress brandished the knife over his body,but she could not help dropping tears,feeling too pity for him.
the emperor woke up and told her about what he had dreamed; 'a colorful and brilliant small snake wound around my neck and then a rain cloud approached from the direction of saho to fall rain drops on my cheeks.'
and when he asked her opinion on what his dream meant,she ran away to her brother after she confessed the emperor the assassination attempt.
although the emperor had to subdue the traitors,he loved her deeply and,in addition,she was expecting his son,who was growing steadily.
as she also felt very sorry for involving his son,she asked the emperor to take care of the son.
the emperor sent agile soldiers to recapture the empress who came out to hand over his son to the soldiers,however,her resolution was firm.
she had shaved her hair on the head to make a mannish topknot,and had made a notch on the thread of her bracelets.
her dress,which had been soaked with sake,was decayed due to the effect of sake so that it was easily torn up when touched by the soldiers;this made it difficult for the soldiers to catch her.
when the emperor asked, 'what shall i do with the name of our son?' she replied, 'as i delivered him in the flames,you may call him homuchiwake no miko(prince born through the flames).'
the emperor continued asking, 'who on earth will untie the strings of my under-kilt you tied?' and she answered, 'tanihanohikotatasumichino-ushinoo has two daughters called ehime and otohime,respectively.'
these sisters are faithful people.'
and she said to him 'you should invite them for your console.'
then,she followed his elder brother to death at the inagi castle covered by the roaring flames.
