satodairi(temporary imperial palace)
satodairi means residences of the emperor(imperial palaces)except for the dairi(the emperor's residential compound)in heian-kyu palace,used after the heian period.
'sato' means a priest lodge in village in heian-kyo,thus, "satodairi" means an 'imperial palace in heian-kyo.'
summary
after the late 10th century,the dairi in heian-kyu palace was often burned down.
the loss of dairi in a fire required a temporary move of the emperor's residence to another place;at first,the goin palace was used as a temporary imperial palace.
the goin palace is an imperial villa built mainly for the purpose of providing a residence for the emperor after abdication.
however,when the goin palace was occupied by a retired emperor,the residence of relatives of the emperor was sometimes used as a temporary imperial palace,and it was called the satodairi.
whenever the dairi in heian-kyu palace was burned down,it was reconstructed;but it took a progressively longer time for each reconstruction.
in the regency period,the dairi in heian-kyu palace was still recognized as the primary imperial palace,and the satodairi was rarely used as the imperial palace when the dairi in heian-kyu palace was available;in the cloistered government period,however,the satodairi was commonly used as the imperial palace irrespective of the presence of the dairi in the heian-kyu palace.
kyoto imperial palace
the current kyoto imperial palace was originally the tsuchimikado higashinotoin-dono palace,or the satodairi.
the kyoto imperial palace is located at tsuchimikado-kita,higashinotoin-higashi,ogimachi-minami,takakura-nishi and was originally the residence of fujiwara no kunitsuna.
later,the kyoto imperial palace was owned by the retired emperor goshirakawa,and then was succeeded by jimyoin-to(imperial lineage from emperor gofukakusa to emperor gokomatsu)through senyomonin and emperor gofukakusa.
in 1331,the kyoto imperial palace was first used as a temporary imperial palace by emperor kogon in the northern court(japan)and successive emperors resided in the kyoto imperial palace until 1869.
in the azuchi-momoyama period,hideyoshi toyotomi made kugemachi(court noble village)where residences of court nobles were built up around the temporary imperial palace,which substantially formed the current kyoto imperial palace.
meanwhile,most of the buildings in the current kyoto imperial palace were constructed by the edo bakufu(japanese feudal government headed by a shogun)during the late edo period.
