imperial princess shushi
imperial princess shushi/nagako(脩子)(february 1,997-march 19,1049)was the first princess of the sixty sixth emperor ichijo,and her mother was empress fujiwara no teishi.
in "dainihonshi" (great history of japan),it was indicated as '修子.'
imperial prince atsuyasu and imperial princess bishi were her maternal half-siblings.
she lost her mother,the empress dowager early,and was brought up in the palace(the imperial edict of emperor ichijo).
since she was adored by her father,the emperor,she went through mogi(coming-of-age ceremony for girls)and was conferred the rank of sanbon(the third rank of the imperial princess's ranks)without following the order.
on new years day in 1007,she was granted the rank of ippon shinno(the first rank imperial prince)jugo(honorary rank next to the three empresses:great empress dowager,empress dowager,and empress)at the age of twelve,and本封の外千戸was added(the shosho(imperial edict,decree)she received at that time was contained in "dainihonshi")
after her father died,she was not happy to spend her life under the protection of fujiwara no michinaga and fujiwara no shoshi,she moved to the residence of her uncle,fujiwara no takaie knowing that fujiwara no michinaga and fujiwara no shoshi were not pleased about it.
thereafter,she moved to sanjo no miya on march 17,1013(shoyuki(diary of fujiwara no sanesuke).
she lived separately with imperial prince atsuyasu,her younger maternal half-brother who was adopted by shoshi.
she wailed over the death of the imperial prince when he died at the age of 20("eiga monogatari," the tale of glory).
she was so religious that she took the tonsure in april 1024;she was referred to as nyudo ippon no miya.
like many other noble ranking princesses,she was not married for her entire lifetime.
she adopted fujiwara no enshi,the second daughter of fujiwara no yorimune(her mother was the daughter of fujiwara no korechika,a cousin of imperial princess shushi),and she accompanied enshi as her foster mother when enshi married into emperor gosuzaku's palace.
imperial princess shushi was good at calligraphy,while enshi was good at koto(a long japanese zither with thirteen strings)of so(a long japanese zither with thirteen strings)as there were many players of koto and biwa(japanese lute)around imperial princess shushi("eiga monogatari").
she passed away in the spring of 1049,and the day of her death was the day of shaka's death;people said`her soul must rest in peace' ("goshui wakashu",later gleanings of japanese poems).
since imperial princess shushi was born after her maternal relative was degraded,she was not fortunate regarding her guardian,just like the imperial prince atsuyasu,her younger brother by the same mother.
however,her father,the emperor adored imperial princess shushi,his eldest daughter,very much;the emperor's vassal close aide who knew it well was dedicated to serve her("gonki" (fujiwara no yukinari's diary), "shoyuki" (the diary of fujiwara no sanesuke),etc.).
besides,imperial princess shushi was the only elder sister for the emperors;emperor goichijo,emperor gosuzaku(both were the birth children of shoshi's place)although she was a paternal half-sister;for this reason,she was treated by the imperial court with respect for her entire life.
she was involved in the legacy of "makura no soshi" (the pillow book)(according to the postscript written in the noinbon(type of transcription)of makura no soshi).
it is known that kajin(waka poet)sagami served her.
the episode about sugawara no takasue's daughter who lived in the west of sanjo no miya being granted 'medetaki soshi domo' (wonderful books)(めでたき草子ども)as an imperial gift by the imperial princess shushi family around 1020 was contained in "sarashina nikki" (the sarashina diary).
