komatsu no miya
komatsu no miya was established by the fushimi no miya imperial prince kuniie's eighth prince,komatsu no miya imperial prince,akihito during the early meiji period.
after imperial prince akihito died,kitashirakawa no miya imperial prince yoshihisa's prince,teruhisa komatsu was demoted from nobility to subject,and succeeded a ritual of the miyake(house of an imperial prince)by naming the marquis komatsu family.
imperial prince akihito
komatsu no miya imperial prince akihito was born as the eighth prince of fushimi no miya imperial prince,kuniie in 1846.
he succeeded to the chief priest of ninna-ji temple and was adopted by emperor ninko in 1848.
soon after that he became a priest and was named楞厳定院御室・純仁,and was honored with the first rank of princes.
he received ishhin ajari and chokue denpo kanjo in 1864.
he became the thirtieth priest prince of ninna-ji temple,however he was ordered to return to secular life by the emperor in 1867.
in 1883 he established ninna kai to restore the ninna-ji temple and became president.
he also became president of the red cross,the fisheries association,butoku kai and koya mountain prosperous association.
kuni no miya imperial prince asahiko was his older brother,and kitashirakawa no miya imperial prince yoshihisa was his younger brother.
at the restoration of imperial rule,he was appointed as gijo,military president.
he led the imperial army as the governor-general for suppressing ou province in the boshin war.
in 1870 his miya go title was changed to higashi fushimi no miya.
in 1873 he acted as the governor-general for suppressing the saga rebellion,also acted as the brigade commander to suppress a revolt during the seinan war in 1876.
in recognition of his distinguished services after the meiji restoration,his family rank was changed to hereditary imperial prince's family in 1880.
his miya go title was changed to komatsu no miya in 1881,after the old name of the ninna-ji temple area,komatsugo.
imperial prince akihito encouraged the imperial family to take the initiative to join military service,following the examples in european monarchy countries,he himself took the lead in joining the military.
in 1886 he was promoted to military general and successively held the position of konoe divisional commander,in the general staff office,and he was appointed as seisei governor general and went to the front in luchun in the shino-japanese war.
in 1897 he joined gensuifu and received the title of marshal.
imperial prince akihito's empress was the lord of the kurume domain in chikugo province,yorishige arima's oldest daughter,yoriko.
empress yoriko also established the woman's club of the japanese red cross society following her husband's work.
she played an active role as president of the tokushi woman's club during the russo-japanese war.
imperial prince akihito did not have any princes nor princesses and adopted his younger brother,prince sadamaro,sadamaro newly established as imperial prince yorihito of the higashi fushimi no miya family in 1902.
imperial prince akihito died in february,1903.
a state funeral was organized upon his death.
teruhisa komatsu
teruhisa komatsu was the marquis from kitashirakawa no miya family,and his court rank was shosanmi(senior third rank)and the first order of merit.
he worked as the chief priest of heian-jingu shrine after the war.
he was the fourth prince of kitashirakawa no miya imperial prince yoshihisa.
he left the royal family when he was a rear admiral cadreman at twenty one years old and established the komatsu marquis family.
due to above,the komatsu no miya family ritual was succeeded,which was ceased to exist after komatsu no miya imperial prince akihito died in 1903.
teruhisa has two male children.
