yamatohime no mikoto
yamatohime no mikoto is a character in japanese mythology.
she was the 4th daughter of the eleventh emperor suinin.
her mother was empress hibasu hime.
she is also regarded as an aunt of yamato takeru.
she succeeded toyosukiiribime no mikoto,the daughter of the tenth empero,sujin,as the 'mitsueshiro,' a kind of prophet or oracle of the goddess amaterasu omikami,and traveled from yamato province,through iga province,omi province,mino province,and owari province,arriving in ise province,where she is said to have received an oracle to build ise jingu shrine at its present location.
the locations where yamatohime no mikoto dedicated the sacred mirror,yata no kagami,before building ise jingu shrine are called moto ise.
later,she presented the sacred sword,ama no murakumo no tsurugi,to yamato takeru no mikoto,who was going east to subjugate barbarian tribes.
oracle to yamatohime no mikoto
it is written in both the nihon shoki and "yamatohime no mikoto seiki" (chronicles of yamatohime no mikoto)that when ise shrine was erected,yamatohime no mikoto was given an oracle by the great sun goddess amaterasu omikami that ise province,where divine winds blow,is a beautiful place where waves from all around the world lap on its shore and that the goddess will stay in this province forever.
himiko of yamatai-koku
yamatohime no mikoto is sometimes associated with 'himiko,' who according to the 'records of wei,accounts of the people of wa',a part of the chinese "records of three kingdoms," was the queen of yamatai-kokuin,near kyoto.
this is because yamatohime no mikoto served as a priest who performed rituals for gods.
yamatohime no miya
even after yamatohime no mikoto was enshrined at ise-jingu shrine,there was no chapel specifically dedicated to her until the taisho period,when a proposal was made by the administrative branch of ise-jingu shrine and ise city to erect a separate shrine for yamatohime no mikoto;the proposal was approved by the government on january 4,1920 and on november 5,1922,she was enshrined in yamatohime no miya chapel on mt.kurata located between the inner shrine and the outer shrine.
this is the only part of ise-jingu shrine established in the modern era.
ujiyamada mausoleum reference site
there is a tumulus where yamatohime no mikoto is said to buried in yamato town,ise city,and based on tradition,it was designated a reference site(a term used for tombs believed to be of imperial family members but whose contents are unverifiable)by the imperial household ministry in october 1928,and it is now maintained and managed as ujiyamada mausoleum reference site by the imperial household agency.
