imperial princess teishi
imperial princess teishi(yoshiko/sadako)(august 15,1013-february 3,1094)was the sixty-seventh emperor sanjo's third princess.
her mother was the regent,fujiwara no michinaga's first daughter,chugu(the second consort of the emperor),fujiwara no kensi(kiyoko).
she was the empress of the sixty-ninth emperor suzaku and nyoin(an honorific title for the mother of emperor(s)and close female relatives of the emperor).
her ingo(a title of respect given to close female relatives of the emperor or a woman of comparable standing)was yomeimonin.
her children were imperial prince takahito(emperor gosanjo),imperial princess nagako(ryoshi)ise saigu(an unmarried princess who,in former times,was sent by the emperor to serve at ise shrine),kamo saiin imperial princess kenshi(an unmarried princess who,in former times,was sent by the emperor to serve at kamo shrine).
in october 1013,she received the title to become imperial princess.
she had chakko ceremony(ceremony for children to wear a pair of hakama for the first time)and received jugo(one of the official ranks for court nobles or imperial family in heian period)in 1015.
in 1023,she had a mogi ceremony(ceremony for the girls,equivalent to a ceremony for coming-of-age for boys)at jotomonin and she was appointed as ippon(the first rank for an imperial princess).
she made an imperial consort's bridal entry for crown imperial prince,atsunaga(emperor gosuzaku)into the court in 1027.
in 1036,emperor gosuzaku succeeded to the throne.
in february 1037,she was appointed as chugu,and she officially became the empress when fujiwara no genshi(fujiwara no yorimichi's adopted daughter)was appointed as the empress in march.
in 1045,after emperor gosuzaku died,imperial prince takahito became crown prince.
she entered into priesthood in july 1045.
she became empress dowager in 1051.
she became grand empress dowager after emperor gosanjo succeeded to the throne in 1068.
in 1069 she received ingo title and was called yomeimonin after that.
she died of smallpox in 1094,she was 82 years old.
imperial princess teishi(yoshiko/sadako)was born while the relationship of her grandfather,michinaga and her father,emperor sanjo was not going well,therefore michinaga was not happy having a baby girl since he was expecting to have baby boy as a future prince to improve the relationship with the emperor.
however emperor sanjo loved this youngest princess very much,michinaga also treated this grandchild born of his daughter very well,the princess's aunt,grand empress dowager,fujiwara no shoshi did koshiyui(a person who tie the ribbon of the hakama at the ceremony)at the mogi ceremony for the princess.
after her aunt,crown prince's empress,fujiwara no kishi died,imperial princess teishi(yoshiko/sadako)made an imperial consort's bridal entry of crown prince into the court as it was michinaga's intention to do so,although there was another candidate who was princess teishi's uncle,fujiwara no norimichi's daughter,it is apparent that princess teishi was treated very well as one of michinaga's family members.
however after emperor gosuzaku's enthronement,this was the time the princess's uncle and the chancellor,yorimichi made her adopted daughter geshi an imperial consort's bridal entry into court and she became chugu,the relationship between the princess teishi and the sekkan family(family eligible for the regent and the chancellor)became worse all the sudden.
while yorimichi and fujiwara no yoshinobu arranged their daughters imperial consort's bridal entry into court one after another,princess teishi was not able to enter into the imperial palace although she was the empress,however she was supported by yorimichi and norimichi's half younger brother,fujiwara no yoshinobu.
it was said,due to fujiwara no yoshinobu's support,who was the kogotaifu(master of the empress's household),the imperial teishi's child,imperial prince takahito became the princess's half older brother,emperor reizei's younger brother who was heir apparent.
("imakagami")(the mirror of the present)although the princess was treated coldly by the chancellor after that,because emperor goreizei died without having any successor to the throne,emperor gosanjo was enthroned after him,the princess teishi became kokumo(empress),yomeimonin,and then she had strong political influence which was a much stronger power than she had when she was jotomonin shoshi.
after that emperor gosanjo abdicated from the throne after being in power around five years and he died,yomeimonin adopted the granddaughter left by the emperor,imperial princess tokushi and gave her much affection while bringing her up.
however emperor shirakawa,who succeeded to the throne after his father,emperor gosanjo,did not obey his father's will to let his half younger brother,imperial prince sukehito succeeded to the throne,instead,emperor shirakawa forced his own son,imperial prince taruhito(later called emperor horikawa,yomeimonin's great grandchild)succeed to the throne.
after that,yomeimonin was furious about this incident,and there was no communication between yomeimonin and emperor shirakawa.
however the retired emperor shirakawa had to stop the conflict between him and his own grandmother,he made imperial princess tokushi imperial consort's bridal entry of emperor horikawa into court and made her become the empress.
soon after that yomeimonin passed away,it was presumed she must have felt at ease to see what happened to imperial princess tokushi.
