imperial princess shushi(yoshiko)
imperial princess shushi(yoshiko)(december 14,1141-july 27,1176)was chugu(the empress)of the emperor nijo.
she became nyoin(takamatsuin).
her original name was toshiko.
she was emperor toba's princess,and her mother was bifukumonin fujiwara no nariko(fujiwara no nagazane's daughter).
emperor konoe was her maternal brother,and imperial princess eishi(toshiko)and imperial princess akiko(shoshi)(hachijoin)were her maternal sisters.
her childhood name was otohimenomiya.
in december 1141,she was born at rokujo-tei,and grew up at shirakawa oshikoji-dono,which was her mother's family home.
in 1146,she underwent hakamagi(ceremony fitting child with a hakama).
in september 1154,she was given the title of imperial princess by imperial order
in 1156,she became the wife of imperial prince morihito(later emperor nijo,the adopted son of bifukumonin).
in the next year,1157,she became jusangu(honorary rank next to the three empresses:great empress dowager,empress dowager,and empress).
in the year after the emperor nijo ascended the throne(1159),it was formally decided for her to be chugu(the empress).
in the same year,when the heiji disturbance occurred,she departed from the capital to taira no kiyomori's rokuhara-tei,together with the emperor.
in 1160,she entered into the priesthood because of illness.
in 1162,an imperial letter to permit use of nyoingo(a title of respect given to close female relatives of the emperor or a woman of comparable standing)was issued,and she was given the title of takamatsuin,which was named after takamatsu-dono where the investiture of the empress was held.
in july 1176,she died from a combination of beriberi and dysentery.
she was 36 years old then.
there was no child between her and the emperor nijo,and she adopted daisozu sone.
meanwhile,it is said that people openly rumored,even while she was still alive,that she committed adultery with hoin daisozu saiken and ended up having a child named kaie.
("gyokuyo" -diary of kanezane kujo)
