imperial princess yoshiko
imperial princess yoshiko(september 30,1714-october 23,1758)was the thirteenth princess of emperor reigen.
her birth mother was uemon no suke no tsubone,atsuko matsumuro.
her childhood' name was yasonomiya.
her half older brother was emperor higashiyama,real older brother was arisugawanomiya imperial prince yorihito.
on november 6,1714,she became engaged when she was one month old to shogun ietsugu tokugawa of the edo bakufu(japanese feudal government headed by a shogun).
ietsugu,the future husband to be,was only six years old at that time.
there was a political calculation during that time of the background for this forced engagement.
there was a power struggle between hiroko konoe,ietsugu's father and the previous shogun ienobu's empress,and nobleman's concubine,ietsugu's birth mother,gekkoin in the inner palace of edo-jo castle.
on the other hand in kyoto,there was another power struggle between princess yoshiko's father,the cloistered emperor reigen and teneiin's real father,motohiro konoe.
during this time akifusa manabe and hakuseki arai,who were preparing to proceed 'shotoku no chi' (the peaceful era of shotoku),planned to have the young shogun marry with the princess from the imperial palace,as the shogun would have more authority in this way,gekkoin agreed to this plan who wished to have more authority for herself inside the imperial palace against teneiin.
on the other hand the cloistered emperor reigen was opposed to the bakufu for a long time,he also agreed to this plan to drive a wedge into the relationship between motohiro konoe and the bakufu,in which konoe got the basis of his political power from.
after the ceremony of exchanging betrothal presents was held on april 10,1716,ietsugu died just after two months after the ceremony on june 19,1716,the descending marriage from the imperial princess to the samurai family,the first time in the history,going to kanto did not happen.
she entered into the priesthood on december 16,1732,and her buddhist name was jorinnomiya.
she died on october 23,1758,when she was forty five years old.
her cemetery is in chion-in temple in higashiyama ward,kyoto city,kyoto prefecture.
