imperial princess ryoshi
imperial princess ryoshi(born 1147,died april 27,1216)was the first daughter of the seventy-seventh emperor goshirakawa.
her mother was takakura-sanmi fujiwara no shigeko(a daughter of dainagon-chief councilor of state fujiwara no suenari).
she served as saigu(vestal virgin princess serving at ise-jingu shrine),later became junbo(emperor's stepmother)and empress of emperor antoku and emperor gotoba,and was a nyoin(a close female relative of the emperor or a woman of comparable standing).
her ingo(a title of respect given to close female relatives of the emperor or a woman of comparable standing)was inpumonin,and her posthumous buddhist name was shinnyokan.
her siblings included prince mochihito,imperial prince shukaku,imperial princess koshi(yoshiko),imperial princess noriko(shikishi,shokushi)and imperial princess kyushi[yasuko].
in 1155,her father emperor goshirakawa was enthroned.
on may 17,1156,she was permitted to use the title of imperial princess,and was decided by fortunetelling to serve as saigu.
in september 1156,she entered nonomiya(field palace).
in 1158,she resigned as saigu after emperor goshirakawa abdicated the throne.
her mother shigeko died in 1177;her brother prince mochihito took up arms against the taira clan,and later died in the battle in 1180.
in 1182,it was decided for her to be kisai no miya(empress)as the stepmother of emperor antoku.
in 1183,she once again became the stepmother at the accession to the throne of emperor gotoba.
in 1187,she was permitted to use ingo,and named herself inbumon-in.
in 1192,she cut her hair before entering a monastery when emperor goshirakawa died.
she died on april 27,1216.
she was age 70.
she was the first daughter of emperor goshirakawa and takakura-sanmi fujiwara no shigeko.
she became saigu at the enthronement of her father emperor goshirakawa.
imperial princess ryoshi resigned without any procession when emperor goshirakawa abdicated the throne just after 2 years.
she was later selected as crown princess as the stepmother of her nephew emperor antoku.
she then became the stepmother of emperor gotoba after the taira clan fled to saigoku(western part of japan).
she was permitted to use ingo,and named herself inbumon-in.
she adopted doson,who was a bereaved child of brother prince mochihito and a disciple of cloistered imperial prince shukaku.
in her last years,she founded rengeko-in temple in yasui-dono of the imperial palace;doson served as a patron of the temple;the temple was later called yasui monzeki.
nyobo(court lady)of imperial princess ryoshi included inpumonin-no-taifu,who was a famous waka poet.
kyogoku no tsubone and kengozen,who were elderly sisters of fujiwara no sadaie(teika),also served her("meigetsuki" (literally,the record of the clear moon,the diary of fujiwara no sadaie)).
