anahobe no hashihito no himemiko
anahobe no hashihito no himemiko(year of birth unknown-february 6,622)was a one of the imperial family members during the asuka period.
she was a princess of the emperor kinmei.
her mother was soga no oane no kimi whose father is soga no iname.
she had an older brother-uterine,the prince anahobe.
she married her older paternal half-brother,the emperor yomei,and became the mother of the prince shotoku,the prince kume,the prince ekuri(eguri)and the prince manda.
after the demise of the emperor yomei,she married the prince tame(the first prince of the emperor yomei and an older paternal half-brother of the prince shotoku)and gave birth to satomi no himemiko(the empress of ohatsuse no oji,and the mother of the prince kazuraki and多智奴女王).
("聖徳太子平氏伝雑勘文" 上ノ三上宮太子御子孫竝后等事条所引にある	the following sentence was quoted from a lost writing of "joguki" (book of japanese history written in the 7th century).
the prince tame,his father was the emperor yomei and his mother was a daughter of soga.'
after the demise of the emperor yomei,he married his mother-in-law anahobe no hashihitohime and had a daughter,satomi no himemiko.'
anahobe no hashihito no himemiko was also referred to as:穴太部間人王、孔部間人公王、間人穴太部王、鬼前太后.
in addition to anahobe no hashihito no himemiko,there was another princess titled "hashihito",who was a princess of the emperor jomei and the empress of the emperor kotoku.
she was just called "hashihito no himemiko."
there is a famous anecdote in "nihonshoki" (chronicles of japan)that when anahobe no hashihito no himemiko was the empress of the emperor yomei,she gave birth to the prince umayado(the prince shotoku)at umaya no toguchi(a door of a stable).
there is a theory that this anecdote was based on the story of the nativity written in the evangel of the new testament,which was introduced to china by a heretic group of christianity, 'luminous religion' (nestorians).
some doubt that the anecdote of the birth of the prince umayado is true.
there is another theory that umayado was named after a place-name.
there is a place named 'taiza' in kyotango city,kyoto prefecture(former tago-cho).
it is said that the name taiza was given by anahobe no hashihito no himemiko.
anahobe no hashihito no himemiko moved to tango in order to flee the conflict between the soga and the mononobe clans,and when she returned to the capital,she allowed to use her name as a place-name.
people in tango were afraid of using the name of the empress directly,so they used 'taiza' (literally means "leave" in japanese)as their place-name,connecting with that anahobe no hashihitohime left taiza.
but there is no description that anahobe no hashihito no himemiko fled to tango including kojiki(the record of ancient matters).
