imperial princess shoshi
imperial princess shoshi(her given name can also be pronounced "akiko")(january 19,1027-october 26,1105)was the first daughter of the sixty-eighth emperor,emperor goichijo.
her mother was fujiwara no ishi,who was a daughter of fujiwara no michinaga and the second consort of an emperor.
she was the second consort of the seventieth emperor,emperor goreizei,and held the title nyoin(an honorific title for the mother of an emperor,etc).
her ingo(a title of respect given to close female relatives of the emperor or a woman of comparable standing)was nijoin.
her half-sister was princess keishi(the second consort of emperor gosanjo).
in 1027,she received a title of imperial princess by the emperor.
she was given the title of jugo and ippon(the first rank for an imperial princes)with chakko(dressing children in a hakama to celebrate their growth)at the same time in 1030.
she lost her father,emperor goichijo,and her mother,the second consort of the emperor,ishi(takeko),one after another in 1036,so she lost both of her parents at a young age.
she had chakumo(dressing as an adult woman in kimono for the first time)in 1037 and made her bridal entry into the court of the crown prince chikahito(who would later become emperor goreizei)at the age of twelve.
with the juzen(accession to the throne as a result of abdication)of imperial prince chikahito in 1045,she received the title of nyogo(a court title given to a consort of the emperor)and was officially appointed as the second consort of the emperor in 1046.
emperor goreizei died two days after the empress dowager died in 1068.
she shaved her head to enter the priesthood,became the grand empress dowager in 1069,and named herself nijoin after receiving the title ingo in 1074.
she died in 1105.
she was eighty years old.
she was the first child of emperor goichijo,not an imperial prince as expected,but her parents loved her very much.
she was a docile and well-natured imperial princess.
after her parents' death,she was raised by her grandmother(maternal aunt),fujiwara no shoshi(akiko)and made her bridal entry into the court as the crown princess.
after fujiwara no michinaga's death,his sons warned each other regarding the inner palace policy,so it would appear that princess shoshi(akiko)was placed under the guardianship of jotomonin as one of the members of the michinaga clan,and this was probably a compromise plan since the daughter of fujiwara no yorimichi was too young at that time.
when fujiwara no kanshi(hiroko),a daughter of yorimichi,made her bridal entry into the court in later times, "eiga monogatari" (tale of flowering fortunes)described that the princess said she would continue to be the second consort of an emperor,but it was because she saw the situation where princess teishi(yoshiko/sadako-maternal cousin of imperial princess shoshi(akiko)),the second consort of the former emperor gosuzaku at the inner palace,was forced to become an empress by the order from fujiwara no genshi,adopted daughter of yorimichi,and barely entered the imperial court.
however,princess shoshi(akiko)was a noble and gentle person,so she did not mind when her husband,emperor goreizei,loved another princess,so the relationship with yorimichi was peaceful.
in addition,after her husband and the guardian,jotomonin,died,she even received the title of nyoingo(an honorific title for the mother of an emperor)which was the first time for the empress,who was not an empress dowager,to receive it,and she lived a stable life.
(however,in order for fujiwara no kenshi,a nyogo of emperor shirakawa,to become an empress,she received the title of nyoin and did not receive a title of inbun zuryo(a head of administrative supervisors for a imperial palace),it maybe because she was not the empress dowager.)
maybe due to the thick blood relationship with her husband,they were less fortunate not to have any children,but because of that,she did not get involved in any imperial succession conflict and lived out her peaceful life,so maybe she was happy in a way.
the imperial mausoleum is in bodaijuin ryo(yoshida kaguraoka-cho,sakyo ward,kyoto city,kyoto prefecture)the same as her father,emperor goichijo.
