kamukushi no miko
kamukushi no miko(神櫛王:year of birth and death unknown)was a member of japanese imperial family(royal family),who appears in the "kojiki" (the records of ancient matters)and the "nihonshoki" (chronicles of japan).
his name was also written as神櫛皇子and神櫛別命,and he was called 'ikahiko no mikoto' (五十香彦命),as well.
he was the seventeenth prince of the twelfth emperor keiko.
according to the "nihonshoki," his mother was ikawahime,and his younger maternal half-brother was inaseirihiko no miko,however,according to the "kojiki," his mother was princess harima no inabi no oiratsume,and his older brothers were kushitsunowake no miko,ousu no mikoto,yamato takeru no mikoto,yamatoneko no mikoto.
it is also said that he was the ancestor of sanukinokuni no miyatsuko(local lord of sanuki province)(sanuki no kimi),sakabe no abiko of kii province,uda no sakabe,sakabe no kimi,and the descendents of the family of miyatsuko(local lord)formed several clans and named themselves the samukawa clan,ueda clan,takamatsu clan,jinnai clan,mitani clan,sogo clan,etc.
his imperial tumulus is located at mure,mure-cho,takamatsu city,kagawa prefecture,and it is maintained by the imperial household agency.
he is also enshrined at shimizu-jinja shrine in yura-cho of the same city(takamatsu city),as well as at kushinashi-jinja shrine,a shrine enlisted in the engishiki code,in kotohira-cho,nakatado county of the same prefecture(kagawa prefecture).
according to the legend of sarureo,which has been handed down in kagawa prefecture,in the year 93,sarureo received an imperial order from the emperor and proceeded to sanuki region to exterminate an evil fish sprawling around in the seto inland sea,and even after getting rid of the fish,he continued staying there until he died on october 20,199 at the age of 125.
about sarureo,in the east sanuki region,he was identified to be kamukushi no miko(in the legend handed down at kushinashi-jinja shrine also backs up this theory).
on the other hand,in the west sanuki region,sarureo was identified to be takekaigo no miko(yamato takeru no mikoto's son).
