imperial prince okiyoshi
imperial prince okiyoshi(also known as okinaga)
he was the child of imperial prince morinaga.
he was the child of imperial prince muneyoshi.
imperial prince okiyoshi(also known as oto no wakamiya)
imperial prince okiyoshi(also known as okinaga)(1326-?)was a member of the imperial family in the southern court during the period of the northern and southern courts(japan)(year of birth was based on jinno-ki).
he was the eldest child of otonomiya imperial prince morinaga.
his mother was the daughter of morokane kazanin or the younger sister of chikafusa kitabatake.
oto no wakamiya,akamatsumiya.
imperial prince kuganaga was his younger brother.
he was born in tajima province,and later became the adopted child of emperor godaigo;and was given the title of imperial prince.
in february 1341,he was appointed to seii taishogun(literally, "great general who subdues the barbarians")in uzumine minami-jo castle by the southern court(japan).
in the summer,he went to oda-jo castle,hitachi province,joined chikafusa kitabatake,and he moved to suruga province after the sieges in seki-jo castle and daiho-jo castle.
in april 1360,all of a sudden,he burnt down ano angu,the base of the southern court,together with ujinori akamatsu and others.
imperial prince okiyoshi's forces were suppressed by the return attacks of moromoto nijo who was assigned to daishogun(commander in chief)and others.
ujinori akamatsu led about twenty solders to save the imperial prince;the imperial prince barely escaped to nara,and nothing was known about him after that.
ujinori surrendered after letting the imperial prince go,and left for his elder brother,norisuke akamatsu.
imperial prince okiyoshi(also known as totomi no miya)
imperial prince okiyoshi(also pronounced as okinaga)(1342-october 20,1377)was a member of the imperial family in the southern court during the period of the northern and southern courts(japan).
his father was imperial prince muneyoshi,and his mother was the daughter of sadanaga kano(kano no suke fujiwara no sadanaga),jushi.
his name,okiyoshi,came from the name of the era.
totomi no miya.
in march 1353,as the forces of the northern court increased,he was left by sadanaga to the care of kageaki amano in akiba-jo castle,totomi province for his safety.
however,it became too hard for kageaki to protect him,and in may 1359,he was sent to the senior vassal of the northern court(japan),tamesada nijo who was his uncle on his mother's side.
afterward,he was captured by the northern court forces,and died from a disease on october 20,1377,
