prince ohodo
prince ohodo(ohodo no okimi;his date of birth and death were unknown)appeared in the "kojiki" (the records of ancient matters)and the 'joguki' (record of the crown prince)as an imperial family(royal family)during the kofun period(tumulus period).
prince ohodo was also known as;oiratsuki,ohod no miko,ohodo no kimi,and ohodo no kimi.
the father of prince ohodo was wakanuke no futamata no miko(a prince of the emperor ojin);and the mother of prince ohodo was otohime mawakahime(also known as momoshiki no irobe who was a daughter of kawamata nakatsuhiko).
the half maternal sisters of prince ohodo were oshisakano onakatsunohimeno mikoto and sotoorihime,each of them became a judai(as an imperial bride,a daughter of nobles or royal family whose entered into the imperial court.)to the emperor ingyo's court.
there was a lack of episodes of achievement and recorded written events on prince ohodo;he was described as an ancestor of:okinaga no saka no kimi(a possibly combined two names:okinaga no kimi and sakata no kimi),sakahito no kimi,mikuni no kimi,tsukushinometa no kimi,and others in the kojiki.
furthermore,according to the itsubun(unidentified or lost wirings)written genealogy from the 'joguki,' prince ohodo married nakashichi no mikoto taking her as his princess,and they had a son(prince),oi no okimi.
later,his grandson was prince odo(odo no kimi);also known as odo no mikoto,in other words,the emperor keitai.
in recent research and historical study,doubt was cast on the existence of prince ohodo;this was effected in the belief of some scholars that prince ohodo was an implant;being a fictitious person inserted during the process of creating the genealogy tables,in an attempt to show the legitimacy in the enthronement of the emperor keitai.
however,since the written characters of prince ohodo, '意富富杼' (ohodo meaning large hodo),correspond to the characters of keitai, '袁本杼' (ohoso meaning small hodo),the possibility remains that prince ohodo was positioned as an elder brother of keitai in the original genealogy table.
additionally,o(意富)appears in different written characters in ancient books,such as;o(意宇),o(於宇),o(大),o(太)and o(多).
because of this consideration,prince ohodo(意富富杼王)might have had a relationship with the clans who worshiped okuninushi no mikoto(大国主命;chief god of izumo from the southern honshu island,japan,and the central character in the important cycle of myths established in that region)whose birthplace was in the eastern part of izumo province,as their ujigami(a guardian god or spirit of a particular place in the shinto religion).
