the kajuji/kanjuji ryu(the kajuji/kanjuji lineage)
the kajuji/kanjuji ryu is one of the lineages of court nobility of fujiwara no takafuji-ryu of the northern house of the fujiwara clan.
today,the characters of the family name are generally read,in the same way as those of the temple by the same name,as 'kajuji,' but the hiragana(today read as 'kuwanshiyushi')occasionally found in medieval books suggests that they were also read as 'kanjuji.'
the kajuji family exists as part of the kajuji/kanjuji ryu,but following the lineage of the eldest son leads to the yoshida family which later became the kanroji family.
the kajuji/kanjuji ryu are said to be descended from fujiwara no sadakata,the son of takafuji.
the name comes from the kajuji temple built by sadakata in yamashina ward.
the family split from the lineage of the eldest son of the fujiwara clan at the time of yoshikado,the great-great-uncle of fujiwara no kanemichi.
in the kajuji/kanjuji ryu,the following families were dojo families:the kanroji family(previously the yoshida family),the seikanji family,the madenokoji family,and the nakanomikado family(separate from the nakanomikado family of urin status),the kajuji family,the bojo family,the honami family,the hamuro family,the ikejiri family,the umegakoji family,the okazaki family,the shibayama family,and the tsutsumi family.
the kajuji/kanjuji ryu set kaju-ji temple in yamashina as the spiritual base of family unity,and tended to be more morally serious than the other lineages:a number of families in the lineage were responsible for supervising the practical work of the imperial court,and the lineage was well-known for producing benkan(oversight department officials)and the sekkanke keishi(officials in a section handling the domestic affairs of regents and advisers).
as they were required to leave detailed diaries which recorded historical precedents for future reference,the kajuji/kanjuji ryu were called "the family of diaries," and a number of diaries by the heads of the various families are still in existence today.
the originator of the kanroji family is said to be fujiwara no tamesuke(the son of fujiwara no asayori),the grandson of sadakata.
however,the kanroji and the kajuji/kanjuji would not split until the time of fujiwara no suketsune,9 generations later(a son of tamesuke also established the uesugi family).
fujiwara no tamefusa,a great-great-grandson of tamesuke,became a personal attendant of the emperor shirakawa and a keishi of fujiwara no morozane and fujiwara no moromichi,who were both kanpaku(post held by a person who governs in the emperor's stead),and is said to have instigated the restoration of the kajuji/kanjuji ryu.
fujiwara no tsunefusa,the great-grandson of tamefusa,took 'yoshida' as his family name.
tsunefusa had a close connection with minamoto no yoritomo,and he became the first kanto-moshitsugi(an institution in the court in kyoto whose function was to communicate and negotiate with the bakufu)and worked to maintain the relationship between the imperial court and the kamakura bakufu.
the family split into the kanroji lineage of tametsune yoshida,who was the son of suketsune and the grandson of tsunefusa,the kajuji/kanjuji lineage of tsunetoshi yoshida,and the madenokoji lineage of sukemichi madenokoji(moreover,the nakamikado family was established by tsunetsugu nakamikado,who was the son of tsunetoshi,and the kajuji family by tsuneaki kajuji,who was a great-grandson of the same).
