the takakura family
the takakura family,one of the families of dojo,was established by nagasue takakura(court rank,councillor,1338-1392)whose father was fujiwara no norikata,a descendant of fujiwara no nagayoshi of the northern house of the fujiwara clan.
nagayoshi's family line was a long way from the main line of the northern house of the fujiwara clan,and the takakura family was ranked as a common courtier,serving as the chamberlain of sixth court rank till the time of fujiwara no norikata,nagasue's father.
however,nagasue takakura served three generations of emperor,the emperor gokogon,the emperor goenyu,and the emperor gokomatsu,teaching "emondo," the style of costumes,and the family was promoted to the court nobility for its services.
from the time of nagasue takakura's son,nagayuki takakura(court rank,councillor,date of birth unknown-1416)onwards,the family taught emondo to the ashikaga shogunate,and gave instruction in the court and samurai rules of ceremony and etiquette to the yamashina family.
this was the beginning of the takakura and the yamashina schools of emondo.
during the warring states period(japan),nagasuke takakura(1530-1585)fought against nobunaga oda in nijo-jo castle under yoshiaki ashikaga,the last shogun of the muromachi bakufu(japanese feudal government headed by a shogun),but he was defeated and surrendered to nobunaga.
later,he ascended to the court rank of junior chief councillor of state,which was the top rank the head of the takakura family would attain.
during the edo period,the family supplied costumes and instructed the tokugawa shogunate in emondo for generations,and,when staying in edo,worked to spread the knowledge of emondo and other court and samurai rules of ceremony and etiquette among the feudal lords.
the family was ranked as "hanke," a type of family status in the court nobility,with the top rank attained being the court rank,junior chief councillor of state.
the hereditary stipend was 812 koku in the edo period,and from the meiji period onwards,the family held the title of viscount.
the ancient documents,books and costumes that have been handed down through the generations in the takakura family are now in the possession of the takakura cultural institute(former name),which is making steady efforts to preserve the traditions.
