the anegakoji/anekoji family
the anegakoji/anekoji family were court nobility of fujiwara lineage.
in the broadest sense,the family had three lines,a kanin line(1 and 2),a koichijo line(3,governors of hida province),and a kajuji line(4).
the daimyo of the warring states period(the miki clan of the old uda-genji(minamoto clan))who took over the name of the anegakoji/anekoji clan(3)are described in the entry for the anegakoji/anekoji clan.
the name anegakoji came from the fact that kiminobu anegakoj,the son of kiminori sanjo of the kanin line(descendants of fujiwara no kinsue),built his residence on anegakoji-street in kyoto.
sanehiro anegakoji,the sixth head was ruined after following the yoshino imperial court.
kinkage anegakoji,the son of saneaki ano of the kanin line established a new anegakoji family in 1613(note that the ano family was ruined like the anegakoji family(1)after supporting the southern dynasty,but subsequently managed to recover power).
initially,the ano family was unrelated to(1),but was ordered to take over religious duties from(1)in 1759 by the order of the then emperor momozono.
kintomo anegakoji and his uncle nobuyoshi sawa,who became head of the sawa family were prominent figures at the end of the edo period.
the family held the status of urinke(one of the family statuses of court noble,military class and could be appointed dainagon,the chief councilor of state).
the new family.
unofficial.
the hereditary stipend was 200 koku.
the family was awarded the rank of count after the meiji restoration.
fujiwara no naritoki,the son of fujiwara no morotada of the koichijo line,built his residence on anegakoji-street in kyoto,and this led to his descendants calling themselves anegakoji.
councilor takamoto anegakoji moved to hida province to take up the post of governor after the kenmu restoration,and the family subsequently provided governors of hida province for generations.
however,the family was defeated by the kyogoku clan sent to look after hida province by the muromachi bakufu(japanese feudal government headed by a shogun),and split into the kojima family(the head of the family)and the furukawa/mukaikojima family.
mototsugu anegakoji and naritsugu anegakoji of the furukawa family subsequently attacked the kojima family and deprived them of the position of head of the family,but naritsugu's son died early,and the line ended with naritsugu's death.
taking advantage of this,yoshiyori mitsuki,a vassal in the kyogoku clan,had the imperial court accept his assumption of the anegakoji name.
and this was the anegakoji clan of the sengoku period(period of warring states).
the kojima family,who had lost their status,served this anegakoji family,and,in the time of tokimitsu kojima,adopted the son of yoritsuna anegakoji.
tokimitsu later fought together with yoritsuna against the army of nagachika kanamori,who under the command of hideyoshi toyotomi,but was destroyed,and this led to the end of both the anegakoji family and the family name.
the line descending from fujiwara no munetaka,who was a courtier in the kamakura period and the seventh generation descended from fujiwara no nobutaka(the husband of murasaki shikibu)of the kajuji line,ended early after only three generations,the members of this line being munekata anegakoji(the son of munetaka),akitomo anegakoji and tadakata anegakoji.
