the rokujo family
the rokujo family were japanese kuge(court nobles).
they were related to the fujiwara no sueshige line of the northern house of the fujiwara clan.
they were related to the nakanoin family of the murakami-genji(minamoto clan).
the rokujo family(fujiwara clan)
the rokujo family were japanese kuge(court nobles).
they were related to the fujiwara no sueshige line of the northern house of the fujiwara clan,and belonged to the same line as the shijo family.
as they were related to the fujiwara clan,they also called themselves the 'rokujo-fuji family.'
the family was founded by shosanmi-shurishiki(officer of palace repairs at senior third rank)fujiwara no akisue(1055-1123)during the late heian period,and the family business was waka(poetry).
the family name was taken from that of akisue's formal residence in rokujo-karasuma during the heian-kyo city.
akisue,the son of menoto(nurse)of emperor shirakawa,was selected as a vassal of the cloistered emperor shirakawa,and became an influential person in both the court and in literary circles.
later,members of the family,fujiwara no akisuke,fujiwara no kiyosuke,and fujiwara no shigeie(gyobukyo,the governor of the justice bureau)were all well known as excellent poets and students of poetry.
however,during the kamakura period,as the mikohidari family flourished,the rokujo family declined and finally became extinct during the period of the northern and southern courts(japan).
the rokujo family(murakami-genji(minamoto clan))
the rokujo family were japanese kuge(court nobles).
they were a branch of the nakanoin family of the murakami-genji(minamoto clan),founded by michiari rokujo,the fifth son of dajodaijin(grand minister of the state)michiteru koga.
they held the house status of the urin family.
their kamon(crest)was marunisasarindo(gentian in a circle).
naidaijin(minister of the center)arifusa rokujo(1251-1319),a son of michiari,became a vassal of emperor gouda,and his son,chunagon(associate chief of the councilor of state)aritada rokujo also served well as a member of the family of daikakuji-to(imperial lineage starting with emperor kameyama).
arifusa and his son,aritada were also well known as excellent poets and calligraphers,and their works are still highly praised among experts on ancient writing.
arimitsu rokujo,the son of aritada,was the only one,who became the head of the minamoto clan(chief of both shogakuin and junnain temples).
in addition,tadaaki chigusa,who was well known as a trusted vassal of emperor godaigo,was the son of aritada and the brother of arimitsu.
during the sengoku period(period of warring states),the family ended once,later chunagon(associate chief of the councilor of state)arihiro rokujo(1564-1616),the son of tamezumi reizei,restored the rokujo family.
their karoku(hereditary stipend)during the edo period was 265 koku(51.41 cubic meters).
at the end of the tokugawa shogunate,juichii-chunagon(associate chief of the councilor of state at junior first rank)ariosa rokujo served as giso(officer conveying what the congress decides to the emperor).
after the meji restoration,arihiro rokujo was given the title viscount.
