the mizuno clan
the mizuno clan is a family of seiwa-genji(minamoto clan).
the founder of the clan was a chinju-fu shogun(commander-in-chief of the defence of the north),minamoto no mitsumasa,who was the imperial prince of minamoto no tsunemoto and younger brother of minamoto no mitsunaka.
seven generations after mitsumasa,during the time of minamoto no shigefusa,they called themselves the ogawa clan.
from the time of shigefusa's son,minamoto no shigekiyo,they began to call themselves the mizuno clan.
for many generations,the clan members served as the lords of kariya-jo castle of the mikawa province.
ieyasu tokugawa's mother,odai no kata,was from this clan.
as described in the ryueihikan,a book outlining the regulations and events of the edo bakufu(japanese feudal government headed by a shogun)during the edo period,the clan was the okazaki fudai(a fudai daimyo who had been serving ieyasu since he entered the okazaki-jo castle).
the minzuno clan is one of the clans that produced kinsei(early modern)daimyo(japanese feudal lord).
at the end of the edo period,the mizuno clan members lorded over the yuki domain in shimosa province,numazu domain in suruga province,tsurumaki domain in kazusa province,and yamagata domain in dewa province.
the lord of the annaka domain in kozuke province,who was punished by the 'kaieki' sanction(sudden dismissal and deprivation of position,privileges and properties)in 1667 and the lord of shingu-jo castle in kii province,who was tsukegaro(karo assigned directly by the shogun when the sons of the tokugawa became daimyo)of the kishu domain were also from the same family.
before the sengoku period(period of warring states)
as recorded in the 'kansei choshu shokafu' (a record of family trees of samurai warriors of edo bakufu),the mizuno clan is thought to have been from the minamoto no mitsumasa line of seiwa-genji(minamoto clan);however,there are different theories as to their origin as some of families call themselves the fujiwara clan and other families who became owari clansmen call themselves the kanmu-heishi(taira clan).
it is said that the origin of their surname was mizunogo,kasugai county,owari province(present day mizuno,seto city);however,a theory recorded in the 'kanseifu' claims that it was mizuno no sato in saga,kyoto.
it was from the middle of the 15th century when sadamori mizuno set his base in ogawa,chita county,owari province(ogawa,higashiura-cho,chita county)that the mizuno clan began expanding their power.
after that,during the time of tadamasa mizuno,the lord of ogawa-jo castle,the mizuno clan expanded their power as far as aomi county,mikawa province and established their base at kariya-jo castle(kariya city).
during this time,the mizuno clan had a close relationship with the matsudaira clan;both clans had adjacent lands and were local authorities in their neighbourhood thus,marriage between them was common.
odai no kata,the daughter of tadamasa mizuno,was a member of the mizuno clan who was married to a member of the matsudaira clan during this time.
however,after the death of tadamasa,nobumoto mizuno,an eldest legitimate son,formed an alliance with nobuhide oda,who was gaining power in the owari province and rebelled against the matsudaira clan that was under the control of the imagawa clan.
nobumoto became the vassal of nobunaga oda,who won in the battle of okehazama in 1560.
after that,in 1575 nobumoto was suspected of naitsu(engaging in secret communication)and committed suicide by seppuku(disembowelment).
during this time,the majority of the clan escaped to okazaki seeking help from ieyasu.
after this event,the mizuno clan was incorporated into the tokugawa clan's organisation as vassals.
however,after the downfall of nobumori sakuma,tadamori mizuno,the fourth son of tadamasa mizuno,and tadashige mizuno,the ninth son of tadamasa,each moved back to ogawa and kariya,their former territories.
after serving nobukatsu oda,tadashige became the vassal of hideyoshi toyotomi as the lord of kariya-jo castle.
tadashige was killed by mitsunari ishida's side just before the battle of sekigahara in 1600;yet his sons,katsunari mizuno and tadakiyo mizuno served ieyasu as great vassals;katsunari became the originator of the mizuno family of the bingo-fukuyama domain in bingo province and the yuki domain in shimosa province and while tadakiyo became the originator of the mizuno family of the numazu domain in suruga province and the tsurumaki domain in kazusa province.
tadamori mizuno,tadamasa's fourth son,was the founder of the mizuno family of the yamagata domain in dewa province and the sons of tadawake mizuno,who was the eighth son of tadamori,wakenaga mizuno and shigenaka mizuno were respectively the originator of the mizuno family of the yamagata domain in dewa province and the mizuno family of the kii-shingu domain in kii province.
however,the genealogy records of the mizuno clan during the sengoku period are inconsistent and their genealogy is uncertain.
it is said that the turmoil brought by the imagawa clan's invasion of mikawa during the eisho era and family separation due to the death of nobumoto resulted in inaccuracies with their genealogy records.
it is also thought that this inconsistency was due to the manipulation done to their genealogy records that put their origin as part of the minamoto clan and the family lines of tadamasa,nobumoto,and tadashige as the head of the family(the second volume of "the history of kariya city").
the mizuno family of the bingo-fukuyama and yuki domains
the founder of this family was katsunari mizuno,the son of tadashige,and this family line originated from their head house.
the territories assigned to the mizuno were all important ones such as from the kariya domain to the koriyama domain in yamato province and the bingo-fukuyama domain in bingo province.
five generations after katsumine mizuno died young at the age of two,the family line was lost due to the absence of an heir;however,as many people missed them because the mizuno clan was renowned,katsunaga,a grandson of katsunari,was allowed to succeed to the family and maintain their family name.
after that,even if their stipend was small,the clan survived until the end of the edo period.
however,during the meiji restoration katsuyuki,who had already retired,and the family head,katsutomo,were divided between the kinno(showing support to the emperor)and the sabaku(supporters of the shogun);fought over yuki-jo castle,the castle where they resided.
the following is the succession of mizuno family heads:
a link is provided for a family head whose information is provided individually on a separate page.
1.katsunari mizuno
(see the link)
2.katsutoshi mizuno
katsutoshi was born in 1598 in nariwa,bitchu province.
he was first introduced by hidetada tokugawa in 1608;he was appointed as jugoinoge(junior fifth rank,lower grade)in the next year and referred to himself as mimasaka no kami(governor of mimasaka province).
he participated in osaka no eki(the siege of osaka)and the shimabara war.
in 1639,katsunari inherited the fukuyama domain upon his father's retirement.
he was promoted to jushiinoge(junior fourth rank,lower grade)in 1642.
he died in edo in 1655.
his lawful wife was moritaka kuki's daughter.
3.katsusada mizuno
katsusada was born in tomo,bingo province in 1625.
he participated in the shimabara war and was first introduced by iemitsu tokugawa in 1639 after the triumphant return to the bakufu.
he was appointed as jugoinoge in the next year,1640,and referred to himself as bingo no kami(governor of bingo province).
upon his father's death,he inherited the fukuyama domain in 1655 and referred to himself as hyuga no kami(governor of hyuga province).
he died in edo in 1662.
his lawful wife was tadakatsu sakai(the lord of the obama domain of wakasa province)'s adopted daughter.
4.katsutane mizuno
katsutane was born in fukuyama in 1661.
upon his father's death,he inherited the fukuyama domain in 1663.
he was first introduced by ietsuna tokugawa in 1668,and referred to himself as mimasaka no kami after he was appointed as jugoinoge in 1675.
in 1681,he looked after tsunakuni matsudaira who was convicted of the echigo sodo(in-house strife in echigo province).
in 1689 and 1692,he worked as an okuzume(adviser to the shogun).
he died in edo in 1697.
his lawful wife was tadakiyo sakai's daughter.
5.katsumine mizuno
he was born in fukuyama in 1697 and inherited the fukuyama domain in the same year due to his father's death.
he died in edo in 1698.
his rank changed due to the extinction of their family line.
6.katsunaga mizuno
he was the grandson of the hyuga no kami,katsunari,and a son of katsunao mizuno of his branch family.
he was born in edo in 1679.
he was first introduced by tsunayoshi tokugawa in 1695.
in 1698,he was allowed to adopt the family name of katsumine and was given 10,000 koku in nishiyachi domain in hakui county,noto province.
in the next year,he was promoted from a koshonami to a page;after he was appointed as jugoinoge,he referred to himself as oki no kami(governor of oki province).
in 1700,his territory was changed to yuki,shimosa province and 3,000 koku was added in the following year.
in 1703,5,000 koku was added;he was also assigned to be in charge of the erection of yuki-jo castle and ranked with the lord.
he died in the same year.
his lawful wife was masamoro uchida's daughter.
7.katsumasa mizuno
he was a younger brother of katsunaga,oki no kami.
he was born in edo in 1685.
he was introduced by tsunayoshi tokugawa in 1701,and became a page in the same year and was appointed as jugoinoge and referred to himself as settsu no kami(governor of settsu province).
in 1703,he became the matsugo yoshi(adopted as a son on one's deathbed)of his older brother,katsunaga,and inherited the yuki domain in the following year.
he was dismissed from a page in 1707.
in 1723,he changed his post name to hyuga no kami.
in 1736 when he retired,he changed his post name to settsu no kami.
he died in edo in 1745.
his lawful wife was kazahaya no saisho kinnaga's daughter.
8.katsunobu mizuno
katsunobu was born in yuki in 1718.
he was first introduced by yoshimune tokugawa in 1733.
he was appointed as jugoinoge in 1734 and referred to himself as shimotsuke no kami(governor of shimotsuke province).
upon his father's retirement,he inherited the yuki domain and changed his post name ot hyuga no kami.
he died in edo in 1749.
his lawful wife was masakuni sakakibara's daughter and his second wife after the death of his first wife was kazahaya no saisho sanetsumi's daughter.
9.katsuchika mizuno
katsuchika was the hyuga no kami katsunobu mizuno's younger brother.
he was born in yuki in 1724.
he was first introduced by yoshimune tokugawa in 1737.
in 1749,he was adopted by his older brother,katsunobu,as his son,and inherited the yuki domain after katsunobu's death.
he was appointed as jugoinoge in the same year and referred to himself as hyuga no kami.
he was retired in 1763 and referred to himself as settsu no kami;however,he died in the same year in edo.
his lawful wife was nobuteru naito's daughter.
10.katsuoki mizuno
katsuoki was born in 1745 in yuki.
he was first introduced by ieharu tokugawa in 1762 and referred to himself as shimotsuke no kami(the governer of shimotsuke province)after he was appointed as jugoinoge.
upon his father's retirement in the following year,1763 he inherited the yuki domain and changed his post name to hyuga no kami.
he died in edo in 1783.
his lawful wife was tadaakira matsudaira's daughter and his second wife after the death of his first wife was nagamichi ogasawara's daughter.
11.katsukata mizuno
katsukata was hisasada nakagawa's son.
he was born in edo in 1760.
in 1783,he became the matsugo yoshi and inherited the yuki domain and was first introduced by ienari tokugawa.
in the same year,he was appointed as jugoinoge and referred to himself as hyuga no kami.
he retired in 1800 and died in 1834.
12.katsuzane mizuno
katsuzane was born in 1780.
upon his father's retirement,he inherited the yuki domain in 1800.
he retired in 1835 and died in 1837.
his lawful wife was yukisada aoyama's daughter.
13.katsuyuki mizuno
he was born in 1817.
he was first introduced by ienari tokugawa in 1833 and referred to himself as saemon no jo(third-ranked officer of the left division of outer palace guards)after he was appointed as jugoinoge.
upon his father's retirement in 1835,he inherited the yuki domain and changed the post name to hyuga no kami.
he retired in 1859.
his lawful wife was ienori uemura's daughter.
14.katsuto mizuno
katsuto was a son of tadanaka mizuno,the lord of kii-shingu domain.
he was born in 1840.
he inherited the yuki domian in 1859.
he died in 1862.
his lawful wife was noritoshi matsudaira's daughter.
15.katsutomo mizuno
katsutomo was a son of nagatomi niwa,the lord of nihonmatsu domain.
he was born in 1838.
he inherited the yuki domain in 1862.
his lawful wife was masatami naito's daughter.
the mizuno family of the numazu domain
the forefather of this family was tadakiyo mizuno,katsunari mizuno's younger brother.
for generations,members of his family line called themselves dewa no kami(governor of dewa province)and worked at the teikan no ma(room for fudai daimyo of junior fourth rank,lower grade and junior fifth rank,lower grade).
when katsunari changed his territory to the kariya domain,they moved together from the kozuke-obata domain and later changed to the mikawa-yoshida domain in mikawa province and to the matsumoto domain in shinano province.
however in 1725,hayato no kami tadatsune,the sixth generation of this family,had a sword fight in the edo-jo castle,and was given the 'kaieki' sanction(sudden dismissal and deprivation of position,privileges and properties).
after this incident,only his uncle tadayoshi,the dewa no kami was allowed to succeed to the family name;however,tadayoshi's son,tadatomo,succeeded as a close adviser to ieharu,which allowed the family to regain the daimyo position in the ohama domain in 1768.
furthermore,in 1777 they were granted the numazu-jo castle in suruga province and became shiromochi daimyo(japanese feudal lord who set up the castle).
after returning to the daimyo position,they were assigned more important posts by the shogunate such as sobayonin(lord chamberlain)and post of roju(member of shogun's council of elders).
in 1868,when iesato tokugawa entered into a new domain,the sunpu domain,23,700 koku of their 50,000 koku was moved to the kikuma domain.
the following is the succession of mizuno family heads:
1.tadakiyo mizuno
(see the link)
2.tadamoto mizuno
tadamoto was born in edo in 1618.
in 1634,he was appointed as jugoinoge and referred to himself as dewa no kami.
in 1647,he inherited the matsumoto domain upon his father tadakiyo's death.
he served as osaka jodai(the keeper of osaka castle)in 1652 to 1662.
he died in edo in 1668.
his lawful wife was hisamori nakagawa's daughter.
3.tadanao mizuno
tadanao was born in edo in 1652.
he was first introduced by ietsuna tokugawa in 1659.
he was appointed as jugoinoge in 1666 and referred to himself as nakatsukasa no shoyu(junior assistant minister of the ministry of central affairs).
in 1668,he inherited the matsumoto domain upon his father tadamoto's death.
in 1670,he changed his name to hayato no kami(the chief of hayato[the imperial guards]).
he died in matsumoto in 1713.
his lawful wife was mitsushige nabeshima's daughter.
4.tadachika mizuno
tadachika was born in edo in 1673.
he was first introduced by tsunayoshi tokugawa in 1683.
he was appointed as jugoinoge in 1687 and referred to himself as dewa no kami.
he was first appointed as an okuzume in 1691 and changed the name to nakatsukasa no shoyu;later,he was reassigned as the page,however he resigned this position in january.
in 1713,he inherited the matsumoto domain upon his father,tadanao's death,and changed his post name to dewa no kami.
he died in edo in 1718.
his lawful wife was toshiharu maeda's daughter.
5.tadamoto mizuno(the lord of the matsumoto domain)
tadamoto was born in edo in 1699.
he was first introduced by ienobu tokugawa in 1709.
he was appointed as jugoinoge in 1713 and referred to himself as hyuga no kami.
upon his father,tadachika's death,he inherited the matsumoto domain in 1718.
he died in edo in 1723.
his lawful wife was tsunanaga asano's daughter.
6.tadatsune mizuno(daimyo)
tadatsune was born in 1701 as the son of tadachika mizuno,dewa no kami.
h was first introduced by yoshimune tokugawa in 1719.
upon his older brother,tadamoto's death in 1723,he became a matsugo yoshi and inherited the matsumoto domain.
in the same year,he was appointed as jugoinoge and referred to himself as hayato no kami.
he went mad and attacked morotaka mori with a sword in 1725 and was given the sanction of 'kaieki.'
after that,he was looked after at takafusa akimoto's house and later confined to his younger brother,tadayoshi mizuno's house.
he died in 1739.
his lawful wife was ujinaga toda's adopted daughter.
7.tadayoshi mizuno
tadayoshi was born in 1707 as the son of tadachika,dewa no kami.
although his older brother,tadatsune,was given the sanction of 'kaieki' in 1725,tadayoshi was granted 7,000 koku and were also allowed to maintain their family name as a special case because their family was renowned.
in 1736,he assumed the positions of jobikeshi(fire department under the direct control of the edo bakufu)and shoinban gashira(the chief of military patrol),and was appointed as jugoinoge and referred to himself as dewa no kami.
he assumed the positions of oban gashira(captains of the great guards),however,he died in 1742 while he was serving as osaka-zaiban(militant organization of the edo bakufu to guard osaka-jo castle).
8.tadatomo mizuno
tadatomo was born in edo in 1731.
he became ieharu tokugawa'sotogishu(advisers)in 1739.
in 1742,he inherited the family estate upon his father's death.
in 1743,he became a page.
in 1747,he was appointed as jugoinoge and referred to himself as bungo no kami(governor of bungo province).
he served as koshogumiban gashira(the chief of the bodyguard of the shogun)in 1758 and sobashu(aide of the shogun)and shogun-kinji(attendant of the shogun)in 1760.
a thousand koku in 1765 and 5,000 koku in 1678 were added;he also regained the daimyo position(mikawa-ohama domain).
in the same year,he was assigned the position of wakadoshiyori(a managerial position in edo bakufu)and chaged his post name to dewa no kami.
in 1777,he became a sobayonin;as he got promoted to jushiinoge(junior fourth rank,lower grade),his territory was changed to 20,000 koku of suruga-numazu domain.
in 1781,he was ranked to the level of roju and as 5,000 koku was added,he promoted to jiju(a chamberlain).
in 1785,he became a roju and 5,000 more koku was added.
in 1788,he was dismissed from the office but returned to the position of nishinomaru roju in 1797.
he died in 1802.
he ingratiated himself with okitsugu tanuma and adopted his son,tadanori mizuno,which enabled him to regain the position of daimyo and assume the post of roju;however,he was also shrewd enough to maintain his position that he disinherited tadanori as soon as sadanobu matsudaira came into power.
his lawful wife was yasuchika makino's daughter.
9.tadaakira mizuno
tadaakira was born in edo in 1762 as tomosato okano's son.
he was first introduced by ieharu tokugawa in 1777 and became tadachika mizuno's matsugo yoshi in the following year and succeeded to his house.
he served as konando(steward to the shogun)and page,and in 1785,he was appointed as jugoinoge and referred to himself as yamato no kami(governor of yamato province).
he became an adopted son of tadatomo in 1786 and inherited the numazu domain in 1802.
he assumed the position of sojaban(an official in charge of the ceremonies)in the same year and also served as jisha-bugyo in the following year.
he served as wakadoshiyori in 1806 and nishinomaru sobayonin(grand chamberlain in the nishinomaru)in 1812 and roju in 1818.
he died in 1834.
his lawful wife was a daughter of the dewa no kami tadatomo.
10.tadayoshi mizuno
tadayoshi was born in 1792.
he inherited the numazu domain in 1834.
he died in 1842.
his lawful wife was norihiro matsudaira's daughter.
11.tadatake mizuno
tadatake was born in 1824.
he inherited the numazu domain in 1842.
he died in 1844.
his lawful wife was narihiro mori's daughter.
12.tadanaga mizuno
tadanaga was born in 1834 as the dewa no kami,tadayoshi's son.
he inherited the numazu domain in 1844.
he died in 1858.
13.tadahiro mizuno
tadahiro was born in 1807 as tadatsugu mizuno's son.
he inherited the numazu domain in 1858 and became a sojaban in the same year.
in the following year,he was promoted to sobayonin.
he was dismissed from the post of sobayonin in 1862 and retired.
his lawful wife was tadahira makino's daughter.
14.tadanobu mizuno
tadanobu was born as tadataka honda's son in 1834.
he inherited the numazu domain in 1852.
in the following year,he became a sojaban and jisha-bugyo and served until 1864.
he was assigned the post of roju in 1866 and was assigned the position of captain of the second conquest of choshu;however,he suddenly died in numazu when he was preparing for the war.
15.tadanori mizuno
tadanori was born as tadaaki mizuno's son in 1851.
he inherited the numazu domain after the sudden death of tadanobu in 1866.
his lawful wife was a daughter of masatomo matsudaira.
after he moved the government building of domain to the kikuma domain,with the same amount of shoryo(territory),50,000 koku in 1868,haihan-chiken(abolition of feudal domains and establishment of prefectures)was announced.
the mizuno family of the tsurumaki domain
the founder of this family was the suo no kami(governor of suo province)tadamasu,the son of tadakiyo mizuno.
he served as the new mujo daimyo(daimyo without castle)at a broad veranda of chrysanthemum room in edo-jo castle.
in 1711 when the second generation of this family,tadatsura,hizen no kami(governor of hizen province),became the guards of osaka-jo castle,he was promoted to the level of daimyo.
after that,the family did not have a residence in their territory for a while until they used jinya(regional government office)in the awa-hojo domain as their residence in 1725;however,they moved to tsurumaki domain in kazusa province in 1827.
the family heads mainly assumed the positions of oban(a group of guards in the edo shogunate)and wakadoshiyori.
1.tadamasu mizuno
tadamasu was born in 1625.
he became a page for ietsuna tokugawa in 1641.
in 1650,he changed the position to nishinomarukachigashira(leader of the group walking first place in line and guarding streets for the shogun)and was given 500 bales of rinmai(rice stored by a feudal government or domains),and was allowed to wear hoi(clothing for kuge)during ceremonies.
he became the koshogumiban gashira in 1657 and referred to himself as suo no kami after he was appointed as jugoinoge.
he was given a territory equivalent to 5,000 koku in 1659.
after that,he served as shoinban gashira and oban gashira and in 1692,he was appointed as an okuzume.
he died in edo in 1694.
his wife was toshinao tsuchiya's daughter.
2.tadatsura mizuno
tadatsura was born in edo in 1655.
he was first introduced by ietsuna tokugawa in 1663 and became a nakaoku(middle inner)page.
he was appointed as jugoinoge in 1669 and referred to himself as hizen no kami.
upon his father's death,he inherited the family estate in 1694.
he became the sobashu in 1696 and assumed the position of the guards of osaka-jo castle in 1711 and he ranked with daimyo after 12,000 koku was added.
he died in osaka in 1713.
his lawful wife was masatake ikeda's adopted daughter and his second wife was kinaki anegakoji's daughter.
3.tadasada mizuno
he was born in 1691 as sadashige matsudaira's son in kuwana,ise province.
in 1712,he was adopted by tadatura and was first introduced by ienobu tokugawa;he referred to himself as iki no kami(governor of iki province)after he was appointed as jugoinoge.
he inherited the family estate in 1713 due to the death of his foster father.
he became the oban gashira in 1719 and promoted to wakadoshiyori in 1723.
his territory was changed to the awa province in 1725 and constructed jinya in the land of hojo.
in 1745,3,000 koku was added to his territory.
he died in edo in 1748.
his lawful wife was tadatsura mizuno's daughter.
4.tadachika mizuno
he was born in edo in 1730.
he was first introduced by yoshimune tokugawa in 1743.
he was appointed as jugoinoge in 1744 and referred to himseld as hizen no kami.
he inherited the hojo domain upon his father's death in 1748.
he became the oban gashira in the following year and then served as sojaban and wakadoshiyori.
he died in edo in 1775.
his lawful wife was katsukiyo itakura's daughter.
5.tadateru mizuno
he was born in edo in 1761.
in 1775,he inherited the hojo domain upon his father's death.
he was first introduced by ieharu tokugawa and was appointed as jugoinoge and referred to himself as iki no mori.
in 1784,he became the oban gashira and served as sojaban and wakadoshiyori.
his jinya was moved to tsurumaki,kazusa province in 1827.
he died in 1828.
his lawful wife was tadayoshi ooka's daughter and after the divorce,he married naoyasu mizoguchi's daughter.
6.tadamitsu mizuno(the lord of the tsurumaki domain)
tadamitsu was born in 1792.
in 1828,he inherited the tsurumaki domain upon his father's death.
from 1839,he served as nishinomaru wakadoshiyori.
he died in 1342.
his lawful wife was shigehide shimazu's adopted daughter and his second wife was tadakiyo makino's daughter.
7.tadayori mizuno
tadayori was born in 1824.
upon his father's death,he inherited the tsurumaki domain in 1842.
he became a sojaban in 1848.
his lawful wife was toshikore maeda's daughter.
mizuno family of the yamagata domain
the founder was tadamoto mizuno.
for many generations,his family referred to themselves as kenmotsu(inspector of the transfer into and from warehouses of the court)and worked at the teikan no ma.
this family frequently moved from one important territory to another,such as from the yamakawa domain,shimotsuke province to the tanaka domain in suruga province,the mikawa-yoshida domain and the okazaki domain in mikawa province,the karatsu domain in hizen province,and the hamamatsu domain,totomi province.
except the time in the karatsu domain when they served as police escort in nagasaki,they mainly assumed shogunate's key posts.
this family produced renowned roju,such as the izumi no kami(governor of izumi province)tadayuki,who assisted yoshimune tokugawa during the kyoho reforms and tadakuni mizuno,who led the tenpo reforms.
after the time of tadakuni,their territory was changed to yamagata,dewa province,for having failed in the reforms.
1.tadamoto mizuno
tadamoto was born as a son of tadamori mizuno,the lord of ogawa-jo castle in owari province in 1574.
he was appointed as jugoinoge in 1605 and referred to himself as daikenmotsu(a senior auditor in the ancient ministry of finance or interior).
he served as koshogumiban gashira and nishinomaru shoinban gashira(leader of the shogun's bodyguards in the nishinomaru);he also participated in the shogunate government.
the territory of 35,000 koku was added in the shimosa province,shimotsuke province,and omi province and the family ranked with daimyo.
he died in 1620.
his lawful wife was the daugher of tameharu miura,a vassal of the kishu tokugawa family.
2.tadayoshi mizuno
he was born in edo in 1612.
he was first introduced by ieyasu tokugawa in 1614.
upon his father' death,he inherited the family estate in 1620.
he was appointed as jugoinoge in 1630 and referred to himself as daikenmotsu.
in 1635,10,000 koku was added and his territory was changed to the tanaka domain in suruga province.
after that,in 1642,his territory was changed to the mikawa-yoshida domain in mikawa province and to okazaki in the same province in 1645 with additional 5,000 koku increase.
even during the time of peace,he busied himself with the reinforcement of army against his own imagined enemy,owari domain;however,this led him confront with his legitimate child,tadaharu,who was against this.
he died in edo in 1676.
his lawful wife was masanari inoue's daughter.
3.tadaharu mizuno
tadaharu was born in edo in 1641.
he was first introduced by ietsuna tokugawa in 1651.
in 1654,he was first appointed as jugoinoge and referred to himself as uemon no taifu(lieutenant of right division of outer palace guards,particularly the one promoted to fifth rank).
upon his father's death,he inherited the okazaki domain in 1676.
he served as sojaban and jisha-bugyo from 1681 to 1685.
he died in edo in 1692.
his lawful wife was toshitsugu maeda's daughter.
4.tadamitsu mizuno
tadamitsu was born in edo in 1662.
he was first introduced by ietsuna tokugawa in 1678 and referred to himself as buzen no kami(governor of buzen province)after he was appointed as jugoinoge.
upon his father's death,he inherited the okazaki domain in 1692.
he became an okuzume in 1696.
he died in edo in 1699.
his lawful wife was tadahira honda's adopted daughter.
5.tadayuki mizuno
he was born as a son of tadaharu mizuno,the third generation,in edo in 1669.
tadayuki was adopted by tadachika mizuno and inherited his territory of 2,030 koku in 1674 and served as tsukaiban(a person responsible for orders and patrol in a battlefield)and shinbangashira(person in charge of guarding the shogun and inspecting arms).
in 1699,he inherited the okazaki domain upon his older brother tadamitsu's death and was appointed as jugoinoge and referred to himself as daikenmotsu.
in 1702,he was assigned to take care of nine warriors of ako roshi(lordless samurai of the ako domain).
after he assumed as sojaban in 1705,he served as wakadoshiyori and kyoto shoshidai(the kyoto deputy).
in 1714,he was promoted to jushiinoge and changed his post name to izumi no kami.
in 1717,he assumed the position of roju and participated in the kyoho reforms(the reforms made in the kyoho era of the edo period).
in 1725,10,000 koku was added to his territory.
in 1730,he was dismissed from his service for frequent illness and the family estate was passed over to his son,tadateru.
he died in the following year.
6.tadateru mizuno
he was born in edo in 1691.
he was first introduced by tsunayoshi tokugawa in 1704.
in the following year,he was appointed as jugoinoge and referred to himself as uemon no taifu.
in 1712,he changed the post name to uemon no suke(assistant captain of the right division of outer palace guards),and in 1729,to daikenmotsu.
upon his father's retirement,he inherited the okazaki domain in 1730.
he died in okazaki in 1737.
his lawful wife was masamine inoue's daughter.
7.tadatoki mizuno
he was born in edo in 1722.
upon his father's death,he inherited the okazaki domain in 1737,and was first introduced by yoshimune tokugawa in the same year and referred to himself as daikenmotsu after he was appointed as jugoinoge.
he rebelled agaist vassals over the reformation of domain duties and was forced retirement from the head of the family by kin in the edo period due to oshikome(house arrest,one of penalties in the edo period)in 1752.
he died in the same year.
his lawful wife was tadanaga honda's daughter.
8.tadato mizuno
tadato was born in 1734 as morimitsu mizuno's son.
he was introduced by ieshige tokugawa as the adopted son of tadatoki and after he was appointed as jugoinoge in 1751,he referred to himself as oribe no kami(director of weaving office).
as tadatoki was forced retirement from the head of the family by kin in the edo period,tadato inherited the okazaki domain in the following year.
in 1758,he changed his post name to izumi no kami.
in 1761,his territory was changed to the karatsu domain in hizen province.
he retired in 1775 and died in 1811.
his lawful wife was the daugher of tadatoki,the kenmotsu(inspector of the transfer into and from warehouses of the court).
9.tadakane mizuno
tadakane was born in 1744 in hiroshima as munetsune asano's son.
in 1767,he was adopted by tadato and was first introduced by ieharu tokugawa.
he was appointed as jugoinoge in the same year and referred to himself as sakon no shogen(lieutenant the left division of inner palace guards).
upon tadato's retirement,he inherited the karatsu domain in 1775.
in 1779,he assumed the position of sojaban.
he retired in 1805 and died in 1818.
his lawful wife was the daughter of tadatoki,the kenmotsu.
10.tadaaki mizuno
he was born in edo in 1771.
in 1785,he was first introduced by ieharu tokugawa and referred himself as shikibu shoyu(junior assitant of the ministry of ceremonial)after he was appointd as jugoinoge.
upon his father's retirement,he inherited the karatsu domain in 1805.
he retired in 1812 and died in 1814(tokushoin eigakusoshun daikoji).
his lawful wife was shigeakira asano's daughter.
11.tadakuni mizuno
(see the link)
12.tadakiyo mizuno
tadakiyo was born in 1832.
upon his father's retirement,he inherited the hamamatsu domain in 1845.
in the same year,his father was accused of his misconduct during the time he served as roju;as the punishment for this,20,000 koku was diminished and the territory was moved to yamagata,dewa province.
he assumed the position of sojaban and jisha-bugyo in 1858.
after that,he served as wakadoshiyori and roju.
he retired in 1866.
his lawful wife was masaharu inoue's daughter.
13.tadahiro mizuno
tadahiro was born in 1856.
upon his father's retirement,he inherited the yamagata domain in 1866.
he returned his lands and people to the emperor in 1870.
his lawful wife was tadamoto mizuno(lord of the kii-shingu domain)'s daughter.
the mizuno family of the annaka domain
the founder was wakenaga mizuno.
as the new castellan,memebers of this family worked at kari no ma(room for castle-owning fudai daimyo newly assigned after the establishment of the edo bakufu)and often assumed the positions such as oban gashira and sojaban.
their territories moved from their ogawa domain in owari province to the shinshiro domain in mikawa province and the annaka domain in kozuke province.
in 1667,the third generation,shinano no kami(governor of shinano province),mototomo went mad and killed his wife,the daughter of mizuno kenmotsu tadayoshi of the mizuno clan in the yamagata domain(at the time of this incident,he was the lord of the okazaki domain),and was given the sanction of 'kaieki.'
after that,his descendants served as hatamoto(a direct retainer of the shogun).
1.wakenaga mizuno
wakenaga was born in owari as tadawake mizuno's son in 1562.
he participated in the war on the side of ieyasu tokugawa during the battle of komaki and nagakute and the kunohe riot.
he became the oban gashira in 1599.
he participated in the battle of sekigahara and became the feudal lord of ogawa,owari province,equivalent to 9,820 koku in 1601.
he was appointed as jugoinoge in 1604 and referred to himself as bizen no kami(governor of bizen province).
his territory was changed to the shinshiro domain in mikawa province,equivalent to 10,000 koku in 1606 and 2,000 koku was added in 1616.
in 1620,they served under yorifusa tokugawa of the mito family and was given 15,000 koku,thereafter,he changed his post name to danjo no jo(a post named "jo" [referring to a judge]in the "danjo" [referring to the ministry of justice]).
at this time,the shinshiro domain was inherited by his son,mototsuna.
in 1623,he died in edo.
at this time,the territory in the awa province was confiscated.
his lawful wife was shigekatsu yamaguchi's daughter.
2.mototsuna mizuno
mototsuna was born in 1594 in owari.
he was first introduced by hidetada tokugawa in 1607 and referred to himself as yamto no kami(governor of yamato domain)after he was appointed as jugoinoge in 1612.
he became the shoinban kumigashira(leader of the shogun's bodyguards)in 1615 and was given 1,000 koku besides his father's territory.
in 1620,when his father was appointed to serve for yorifusa,mototsuna inherited the shinshiro domain and changed his post name to bingo no kami.
he assumed the position of oban gashira in 1626 and served concurrently as sojaban.
in 1633,4,000 koku was added;in 1645,the territory was changed to annaka,kozuke province and koku to 20,000.
in the same year,he resigned as oban gashira and sojaban in 1659.
he retired in 1664 and died in edo in the following year.
his lawful wife was nakagawa shuri no daibu hideshige's daughter.
3.mototomo mizuno
mototomo was born in edo in 1644.
he was first introduced by ietsuna tokugawa in 1652 and referred to himself as shinano no kami after he was appointed as jugoinoge in 1657.
upon his father's retirement,he inherited the annaka domain in 1664.
in 1667,he went mad and wounded his lawful wife,mizuno kenmotsu tadayoshi's daughter,and tried to kill himself.
because of this incident,he was deprived of the annka domain for punishment(kaieki).
his son,danjo mototomo,inherited the family estate and was given 2,000 bales of kuramai(rice preserved in a depository by the edo bakufu and domains).
the mizuno family of the kii-shingu domain in kii province
the founder was shigenaka mizuno.
shigenaka became yorinobu tokugawa's otsukegaro(karo assigned directly by the shogun when the sons of the tokugawa became daimyo)and when yorinobu changed the territory,totumi hamamatsu-jo castle and kii shingu-jo castle in yorinobu's territory were given to shigenaka.
after that,his descendants served as the lord of shingu-jo castle and karo(chief retainer)of the kishu tokugawa family.
their achievements were recognized after the meiji restoration and officially founded the domain and was appointed as baron.
founder,shigenaka mizuno
shigeyoshi(the second)
sadakatsu mizuno
the second,shigeyoshi mizuno
shigetaka(the third)
the third,shigetaka mizuno
(no biological children)
the fourth,shigetoki mizuno(he was adopted from the shinjo family.)
(no biological children)
the fifth,tadaaki mizuno(he was adopted from a branch family of the mizuno clan.he was sadakatsu's grandson.)
tadaoki(the sixth)
the sixth,tadaoki mizuno
(no biological children)
the seventh,tadazane mizuno(he was adopted from a branch family of the mizuno clan.he was tadaaki's younger brother,tadanobu mizuno's grandson.)
noriaki mizuno(he died young)
the eighth,tadaaki mizuno(tadazane's grandson)
tadanaka(the ninth)
the ninth,tadanaka mizuno
tadamoto(the tenth)
katsuto mizuno(the lord of yuki in shimosa province)
the tenth,tadamoto mizuno(the lord of kii shingu)
others
narisada mizuno,katsunari mizuno's son,became a hatamoto,but his son,nariyuki(jurozaemon)mizuno,who had the chigyo(enfeoffment)equivalent to 3,000 koku,killed banzuiin chobei after being in a fight with him;his wrongdoing was condoned for this time,however,after that,he was sent to his mother's family house,the hachisuka family,for being negligent of his duties.
when he was summoned to the consultation,he appeared dressed too casually and without his forehead being shaved in the sakayaki style,which was mandatory for samurai during those days,he was sentenced to seppuku(suicide by disembowelment)for being too irreverent,which led to the end of the family line.
after that,nariyuki's younger brother,tadaoka mizuno,was assigned a position of hatamoto.
other than the mizuno families who served as daimyo,there were some who served in the owari domain.
1.the tokoname-mizuno family
the founder was the brother of tadamasa mizuno,tadatsuna mizuno.
the family served as the lords of tokoname-jo castle(located in present day yamakata-cho,tokoname city,aichi prefecture)and possessed this area.
the third,moritaka mizuno,is thought to have been on akechi's side during the honnoji incident and died in 1598 in kyoto after retirement.
his wife,soshin-ni(a daughter of tadamasa's second son nobumoto mizuno,and ieyasu's cousin),an adopted daughter of mitsukatsu(gorozaemon)nakayama(a son of the lord of yanabe-jo castle,katsutoki nakayama),revived her husband's family line by adopting shinshichiro,the biological son of her younger sister(her name is uncertain),who used the name yasumasa mizuno;he and his descendants served in the owari domain until the end of the edo period.
2.the kowa-mizuno family
the founder of the kowa-mizuno family was mitsuyasu,the son of morimitsu toda,the lord of kowa-jo castle(nishidani,kowa,mihama-cho,aichi prefecture)and nobumoto mizuno's daughter,myo(soshin-ni's sister).
mitsuyasu's father,morimitsu,died in battle at the siege of odawara he participated for the hideyoshi's side in 1590.
he received the patronage in edo from odai no kata with his mother,myogen-ni,who had become a monk after the death of her husband.
after he used his mother's family name and called himself mitsuyasu mizuno in 1597,he was granted the territory equivalent to 700 koku from ieyasu tokugawa.
he returned to kowago in 1601 where he was given 1,460 koku and became the owari clansman.
his descendants also served in the owari domain and possessed a residence(called kawa yashiki)in the former castle town of kawa.
