the shibayama family
the shibayama family was a "tosho-ke" (hereditary lineage of court nobles occupying relatively high ranks)of an illegitimate family lineage of kajuji of the takafuji group of the northern house of the fujiwara clan,and its social standing was a prestigious family.
the family crest was the mittsu atsume suzume(three sparrows).
the family was started when okura-kyo(minister of the treasury)nobutoyo kajuji,a biological child of ukyo no suke(assistant master of the western capital offices)okiyasu abe(who was the fifth son of haretoyo kajuji,a jun-daijin(vice minister))was adopted by his uncle gon dainagon(provisional major counselor)mitsutoyo kajuji and was named shibayama.
originally,shibayama was an another name for the kajuji family,and the first family head of the kajuji family,naidaijin(minister of the center)tsuneaki kajuji was also called naidaijin shibayama.
after the first family head,gon dainagon(provisional major counselor)nobutoyo shibayama,waka poetry had been their family business for generations,and they also had 100 koku crop yields of rice during the edo period.
during the meiji era,the tenth family head was yoshitoyo shibayama,and the family was raised to the peer level and to viscount.
in 1868,the eighth family head,kudai-taifu(post of imperial household ministry)kuninori shibayama's adopted son kokuei,who was the chief priest of kofuku-ji kensho-in temple(also a son of sangi(councillor)toshimasa bojo),created the imazono family after exclaustration.
moreover,the seventh family head,kudai-taifu(post of imperial household ministry)kunitoyo shibayama's adopted son hokun,who was the chief priest of kofuku-ji joshin-in temple(also a son of gon dainagon(provisional major counselor toshiaki bojo),also created the shibakoji family after exclaustration.
shibayama,his adoptive mother and the lawful wife of the ninth family head minbu taifu(senior assistant minister of popular affairs)yoshitoyo shibayama,temporary succeeded the headship of the family.
masuko was an adopted daughter of toshiaki bojo and a biological daughter of the eighth family head kuninori shibayama.
she handed the headship of the family to her adopted son,suketoyo shibayama,who was toshimasa bojo's biological son.
the family crest was the take ni suzume(bamboo and sparrow)following after the kajuji family.
the family temple was shojoke-in temple.
their residence was in inzan-cho nishiyori.
