the mibu family
the mibu family
court nobility of nakamikado-ryu(the nakamikado line)of the northern house of the fujiwara clan.
the jige family of the ozuki(the family name is also read otsuki)clan.
the family identified itself as the kanmu family.
the mibu family(nakamikado-ryu of the northern house of the fujiwara clan)
the mibu family was court nobility with a family status of the urin.
nakamikado-ryu of the northern house of the fujiwara clan.
a branch of the jimyoin family.
the family originated with motooki mibu,the youngest son of motonari sono,in the early edo period.
the hereditary stipend in the edo period was 130 koku.
the family was awarded the title of viscount after the meiji restoration.
later the title was upgraded to count.
important members of the family
at the end of edo period and the beginning of the meiji restoration,motoosa mibu was one of shichikyo-ochi members(defeated seven nobles).
he became a senior counselor after the restoration.
he joined the army as a staff officer in the boshin war and captured the domain of aizu.
he served as the governors of echigo prefecture and tokyo prefecture and proceeded to become a councilor of the senate and join the house of lord.
he received the viscountship on july 8,1884.
he was promoted to count in 1891.
motoyoshi mibu became a soldier after graduating from military academy and was promoted to major general in the army,and also served as a military attache to the palace.
his wife was princess suzuko,the eighth daughter of the imperial prince asahiko kuninomiya.
motoyasu mibu also served as the member of house of lords.
motohiro mibu was the second son of princess shigeko,the first daughter of the emperor showa,and morihiro higashikuninomiya was the first son of naruhikoo higashikuninomiya.
he was originally called hidehiko.
he was adopted by the mibu family,and became as the executive managing director of dai-ichi hotel.
the mibu family(the family name is ozuki/otsuki)
the mibu family was a government official for the jige family which served the imperial court.
the family was descended from the eldest son of otsuki no takamoto
the hereditary stipend in the edo period was 100 koku.
the family was awarded the title of baron after the meiji restoration.
the ozuki family administered the records of imperial japanese council of state from the middle ages,and was,due to its inherited position of fifth rank(sadaishi joshu),known as the family of administrative service;when ozuki no hirofusa,the son of小槻長業,and ozuki no takamoto,hirofusa's younger brother,fought over the position,the family was divided into two streams with the position of fifth rank going takamoto and his descendents(the mibu family)and the post of sanhakase(a position teaching mathematics and looking after mathematicians)going to hirofusa and his descendants(the omiya family).
from the middle ages onwards,the mibu family held the positions of repair section chief of todai-ji-temple great buddha,the chief of tonomonoryo(palace custodians and supply bureau),and also,from when the omiya family was discontinued at the end of muromachi period,sanhakase(a position teaching mathematics and growing mathematicians)after the era of takasuke mibu.
the mibu family which held the inherited administrative position of kanmu and the oshikoji/oshinokoji family(the nakahara family)which held the inherited position of kyokumu(chief senior secretary of the council of state)were collectively known as ryokyoku,and had the status of jige.
the mibu family had the status of jige,but chiin mibu and ine mibu were promoted to the rank of jusani(junior third rank).
the illegitimate descendents of the mibu family include the murata family,which also had the status of jige family and held the inherited position of imperial japanese councilor of state.
