the kadenokoji/kageyukoji family
the kadenokoji/kageyukoji family is a japanese clan.
the kadenokoji family(of the fujiwara clan lineage)
the kadenokoji family were a branch of the karasumaru family of the hino family lineage of the fujiwara clan,and descendants of mitsuhiro karasumaru.
the family business was confucianism,and the hereditary stipend was 130 koku in rice.
the family was established by suketada kadenokoji,the second son of mitsuhiro karasumaru,in 1644.
the family crest was tsuru no maru(a crane in a circle).
the family had a status of meike/meika.
the family head in the showa period was sukekoto;sukeatsu had first been adopted by saneatsu mushanokoji and then accepted by the kadenokoji family.
after the meiji restoration,the family was awarded the title of viscount.
unjo meikan(the books giving a detailed view of the imperial family and its offshoots)state that 'the founder was suketada,shosanmi(senior third rank)councilor,who was the youngest son of mitsuhiro,shonii(senior second rank)gondainagon(junior chief of the councilor of state)and six generations away from toyomitsu karasumaru.'
the sect is the konoe family.
konoe was the name of the street in kyoto and where kageyushicho(an organization auditing local governments in the ritsuryo period)was located.
the name was used in the titles of a family of court nobility and a family of senior samurai,and also became a family name.
the shirakawa family lineage of the northern house of the fujiwara clan continued to fujiwara no tsunetada,the son of koretada/koremasa and his son yukitada,and yukitada then took the name kadenokoji.
in the kajuji-ryu(the kajuji lineage)of the northern house of the fujiwara clan,the family record showed tamefusa-tametaka-mitsufusa(a vice minister of kageyushicho),and takakiyo,the descendant(kadenokoji).
in the hino-shi ryu(the hino clan lineage)of the northern house of the fujiwara clan,the family lineage showed sukenaga hino-kanemitsu-yorisuke(kadenokoji),and in the hino karasuma-ryu,the record showed mitsuhiro karasuma-suketada(kadenokoji).
yoshishige kadenokoji and kadenokoji uhyoe-no-kami(the chief of an organization called uhyoefu),who appear in documents in the half a century from the time of meitoku when the northern and southern courts were combined,were the families from the shiba clan.
the kadenokoji family(of the kamo clan)
the kadenokoji family was one of the head families of onmyodo(occult divination system based on the taoist theory of the five elements).
while the abe clan handed down tenmondo(astronomy),the kamo clan passed down rekido(calendar creation).
in ancient times the kamo clan were teacher of the abe clan,and held a superior status.
in the muromachi period,arinaga(aka aritoyo/arinari),the son of kamo no arikata,took the name of kadenokoji.
the family went into decline after the death of aritomi at the end of the muromachi period after being deprived of rekido,their family business,by the abe clan,and was discontinued in the sengoku period(period of warring states).
according to one theory,aritomi disinherited arimasa kadenokoji who was his heir as he knew that arimasa had been christened as christian;he then adopted aritane,who was his nephew,but later assassinated him,and personally terminated the family name.
the kotokui/kadei family(the illegitimate family lineage of the kamo clan)was rebuilt in the edo period and was allowed to administer the onmyodo together with the tsuchimikado family(i.e.the abe clan),but the family lost a battle with the tsuchimikado family and went into decline again.
