tango tanabe domain
tanabe domain was one of the domains in tango province during the edo period.
they were often called by another name,maizuru domain.
the office of the domain was tanabe-jo castle(tango province),(maizuru city,kyoto prefecture).
prehistory
tango province was originally a province where the isshiki clan controlled as shugo;military governor,but in 1579 yusai hosokawa together with mitsuhide akechi defeated a member group of the anti-nobunaga alliance including the isshiki clan to conquer tango and tanba provinces.
fujitaka was given the province of tango as a reward,built tanabe-jo castle(tango province),and was headquartered in maizuru and governed the province of tango.
thereafter,on june 2,1582 mitsuhide akechi,who was his relative,staged the honnoji temple incident,and fujitaka himself was also asked to become involved in the incident,but he stuck to his position being anti-mitsuhide and was approved as the main domain of tango by hideyoshi toyotomi.
however,fujitaka transferred the head of the family to the heir tadaoki hosokawa in order to retire because he took responsibility for his relative mitsuhide's betrayal.
at that time he built miyazu-jo castle as a castle to retire in and moved from maizuru city.
however,he returned to maizuru-jo castle during the battle of sekigahara and worked on behalf of his son who was participating in the battle.
in 1600,the hosokawa clan was transferred to the nakatsu domain in buzen province after the battle of sekigahara.
then takatomo kyogoku moved into tanabe-jo castle from iida city,shinano province.
the original forefather of the domain:takamitsu kyogoku
takatomo kyogoku ordered his heir takahiro kyogoku to move to the miyazu domain,takamitsu kyogoku to move to the maizuru domain(the tanabe domain),and takamichi kyogoku to move to the mineyama domain,and tango province was divided into three domains to govern.
the maizuru domain(the tanabe domain)was first established by takamitsu kyogoku.
the kyogoku family was descended from omi genji sasaki clan and was also a descendant of the famous doyo kyogoku(doyo sasaki).
in 1673 takanao kyogoku became the second generation lord of the maizuru domain.
the third generation lord takamori kyogoku subdivided and gave a domain of 2,000 koku to his younger brother takakado kyogoku,and in 1668 he was transferred to the toyooka domain in tajima province.
in the same year,brothers chikashige makino and tomishige makino moved into the castle with 35,000 koku from settsu province.
thereafter the makino family had governed the domain till the meiji restoration,and after that it became maizuru prefecture.
the tanabe-makino family
the original forefather of the domain is yasushige makino(busho(japanese military commander)in the sengoku period).
yasushige was first named "masakatsu," aka.hanemon.
his father is considered to be sadanari makino(hachidayu),a yoriki,assistant of the ushikubo makino clan.
during the period when he was living in mikawa province the fiefs were in hirai of hoi county(the present hirai,kosakai cho,hoi county,aichi prefecture).
it belonged to the tokugawa clan in 1564 and in august the next year,hirai(land of 92 kanmon)was approved.
incidentally,the family tree of makino yamashiro no kami before sadanari(as for this name there are also a few theories)is not known as whether it was being established or not
there are many unclear points as to why the makino clan was ranked as a yoriki considering the clan being the family of the lord of ushikubo-jo castle.
the family tree is unclear because as for the roots of the makino clan before the azuchi momoyama period,many unclear points and discrepancies exsist,and there are some different family trees prevailing,and because of those after the makino clan belonged to the tokugawa clan,it is considered that the makino clan intentionally kept away from lord of mikawa ushikubo-jo castle yasushige makino who was one of the anti-tokugawa radicals.
there is no family tree known that shows completely and with certainly,the family tree relationship between the lord of the tanabe domain,the makino clan,and the lord of the nagaoka domain,the makino clan.
in 1590 yasushige was given 5,000 koku in ishito,adachi county,in musashi province,in 1599 yashushige's third son nobushige makino(lord of the sekiyado domain)inherited his father's property,and since 1606 nobushige had worked as grand head,head of page office,head of a military patrol,etc.
the clan was ranked as a daimyo because the koku increase in 1633 and ishido domain,in musashi province,was established with 11,000 koku.
the clan became the lord of sekiyado-jo castle because the koku increase in 1644,and they moved into the sekiyado domain in shimofusa province.
the koku was gradually increased during the generation of the son of nobushige,chikashige makino,and in 1660 he was transferred to become the lord of the tango tanabe domain with 35,000 koku.
thereafter,the clan continued to be the lord in this domain untill the end of the edo period,and after the meiji restoration the former houses of the lords became viscounts and were on the same level as their peers.
