the kainosho clan
the kainosho clan was one of japan's clans.
the name originates from the fact that the descendants of masashige kusunoki's younger brother,masasue kusunoki,ruled kainosho in nishikiori county,kawachi province.
they were originally part of the kusunoki clan,but after surrendering to the hatayama clan,whose leader was the shugo(military governor)for kawachi province,they became vassals of the hatayama clan and were allowed to keep their main domain as their fiefdom.
known descendants of the clan include takanari kainosho,who lived during the first half of the sengoku period(period of warring states),and heiemon masaharu kainosho,who was the lord of eboshigata-jo castle and a christian who lived during the later half of the sengoku period.
although masaharu was a senior vassal of the hatakeyama family and a lord of eboshigata-jo castle,due to the fall of the hatayama clan,he lost the castle,which eventually led to his downfall.
after that,masaharu wandered japan until he began serving ieyasu tokugawa from time unknown.
his child,kiemon masafusa kainosho also served ieyasu tokugawa and their family name continued as gokenin(an immediate vasal of the shogunate in the kamakura and muromachi through edo periods).
since he was familiar with the geography of kawachi,he assumed the positionas a guide during the osaka no jin(the siege of osaka),and and eventually promoted to hatamoto(direct retainers of the bakufu,which is a form of japanese feudal government headed by a shogun)with an increase in territory.
according to a theory,it is also thought that kiemon masafusa kainosho was a local clan in kawachi that was appointed as hatamoto of 4000 koku(2000 of them was the regain of the former territory and the rest 2000 was a raise)as a reward for having served as ieyasu's guard.
masahusa's child,masanobu served as a nagasaki bugyo(nagasaki magistrate)and his child,masachika hidanokami served as kanjo bugyo(commissioner of finance)and edo minamimachi bugyo(magistrate)(served from august 30,1680 to december 3,1690).
the noto kainosho clan was part of the kainosho clan,but from a different family line;ieshige kainosho,who was a member of this clan and held the position of suruga no kami(the governor of suruga province),served as a senior vassal to the noto hatakeyama clan.
it is believed that this family branch of the kainosho clan serve noto hatakeyama clan,also a branch family of hatakeyama clan from kawachi province.
masachika kainosho is the same person as hidanokami kainosho,minamimachi bugyo(magistrate),who appears in "yaoya oshichi(greengrocer's oshichi)'s story."
masayuki kainosho is another person from the same family who served as a hatamoto and as a minogundai(a magistrate of mino region)from 1683 to 1885.
as this preiod is during the time of masachika's tenure,it is conjectured that they could have been brother but there is no clear evidence to support this theory.
successive
below is a list of descendants from the kainsho clain in chronological order;however,not necessarily all of them are in this list.
masaharu kainosho
masahusa kainosho
masanobu kainosho
masachika kainosho
masanaga kainosho
masatsune kainosho
masanaga kainosho
masasato kainosho
masafumi kainosho
masahiro kainosho(entitled to carry a sword;head of the family during the meiji restoration;hatamoto with land that yielded 4000 koku in rice)
masahide kainosho,adopted by masahiro but was dissolved later.
tadaoto kainosho(1894-1978),a renowned japanese painter during the the taisho and showa period.
he was the third son of masahide.
tadaka kainosho,graduated from kyoto university,founder of takasago international corporation
he was the first son of masahide.
tadaka's son,masaoki kainosho
other notable people from the kainosho clan:
ieshige kainosho,a vassal of the noto hatakeyama clan.
he was the suruga no kami.
taisei kainosho(later changed his name to masaaki kainosho)is a senior researcher of the system consulting department of japan research institute,ltd.
he has published books such as "agent system-computer dairinin shakai no yukue(what computer agent society leads us to)".
after changing his name,he has become the president of kainosho(former keiburein)and the author of a book, 'inner branding.'
masatsune kainosho,professor of chemistry at the department graduate school,science and engineering of tokyo metropolitan university and the president of the japanese society of magnetic resonance in medicine.
keiji kainosho,a senior researcher of japan energy co.and a co-author of the book 'hakushoku led shome system gijutsu no oyo to shorai tenbo(the application of the white led lighting system technology and its future prospects).'
hiroshi kainosho,director of jim co.
