tokugawa shogunate family
tokugawa shogunate family was the head family of tokugawa(the head family of the tokugawa clan)and a family of seii taishogun(literally, "the great general who subdues the barbarians")in the edo bakufu.
summary
over a period of 264 years during the edo period,it topped the whole of the japanese society,which included the samurai world,practically as the monarch and ruler of japan.
the tokugawa head family had many concubines in its inner palace,but it often lost lineage and had to adopt children from tokugawa gosanke(three privileged branches of the tokugawa family)and gosankyo(three other privileged branches)many times.
after the meiji restoration,the fifteenth family head yoshinobu tokugawa was placed under house arrest,and iesato tokugawa was adopted as a son.
iesato was officially given 700,000 koku(crop yields)in suruga,totomi and mikawa provinces by the new government,and he moved to sunpu,which he renamed to shizuoka,thus establishing shizuoka domain.
after haihan-chiken(abolition of feudal domains and establishment of prefectures),he moved to tokyo again,where he joined the peerage,was conferred a title of prince and became a member of the tokugawa prince family.
iesato acted as a president of kizokuin(the house of peers)for a long time,and after the war,his legitimate son,iemasa tokugawa,who was the seventeenth family head,became its last president.
in 2003,the eighteenth family head tsunenari tokugawa established tokugawa memorial foundation to manage the family's valuable heritage.
successive family heads and inheritors
ieyasu tokugawa,the first shogun.
nobuyasu matsudaira,who was ieyasu's legitimate son,and was later orderd to perform seppuku.
hideyasu yuki,who was of the echizen-matsudaira family.
hidetada,the second shogun.
tadateru matsudaira
yoshinao tokugawa,who was of the owari-tokugawa family
yorinobu tokugawa,who was of the kishu tokugawa family,and his lineage included mitsusada,yoshimune,the eighth shogun,and yoshitomi,the fourteenth shogun.
yorifusa tokugawa,who was of the mito-tokugawa family,and his lineage included mitsukuni and yoshinobu,the fifteenth shogun.
hidetada tokugawa,the second shogun.
iemitsu,the third shogun.
tadanaga tokugawa,who was of the suruga-tokugawa family,and suruga dainagon(major counselor),and his lineage was extinct after his seppuku.
masako tokugawa,also known as tofukumon-in.
masayuki hoshina,who was of the aizu-matsudaira family,and his lineage included tsunenari,the eighteenth family head.
iemitsu tokugawa,the third shogun.
ietsuna,the fourth shogun.
tsunashige tokugawa,who was of the kofu-tokugawa family,and his lineage included ienobu,the sixth shogun.
tsunayoshi,who was of the tatebayashi-tokugawa family and became the fifth shogun.
ietsuna tokugawa,the fourth shogun,who had no biological child.
tsunayoshi tokugawa,the fifth shogun,who was adopted from the tatebayashi-tokugawa family.
tokumatsu tokugawa,who died prematurely.
ienobu tokugawa,the sixth shogun,who was adopted from the kofu-tokugawa family
ietsugu,the seventh shogun.
ietsugu tokugawa,the seventh shogun,who had no biological child,so iemitsu's lineage was extinct.
yoshimune tokugawa,the eighth shogun,who was adopted from the kishu-tokugawa family.
ieshige,the ninth shogun.
munetake tokugawa,who was of the tayasu-tokugawa family,and his lineage included iesato,the sixteenth shogun,and iemasa,the seventeenth shogun.
munetada tokugawa,who was of the hitotsubashi-tokugawa family,and his lineage included harusada and ienari,the eleventh shogun.
ieshige tokugawa,the ninth shogun.
ieharu,the tenth shogun.
shigeyoshi tokugawa,who of the shimizu-tokugawa family.
ieharu tokugawa,the tenth shogun.
iemoto tokugawa,who died prematurely.
ienari tokugawa,the eleventh shogun,who was adopted from the hitotsubashi-tokugawa family.
ieyoshi,the twelfth shogun.
nariyuki tokugawa,who was adopted into the kishu-tokugawa family,and his lineage included iemochi,the fourteenth shogun.
ieyoshi tokugawa,the twelfth shogun.
iesada,the thirteenth shogun.
iesada tokugawa,the thirteenth shogun,who had no biological child.
iemochi tokugawa,the fourteenth shogun,who was adopted from the kishu-tokugawa family,and had no biological child.
yoshinobu tokugawa,the fifteenth shogun and a prince,who was born to the hitotsubashi-tokugawa family and was adopted from the mito-tokugawa family,and who implemented taisei hokan(restoration of imperial rule).
family of yoshinobu tokugawa
prince family of tokugawa
iesato tokugawa,the sixteenth family head,who was a son of yoshiyori tokugawa of the tayasu-tokugawa family,and also was a prince and president of kizokuin.
iemasa,the seventeenth family head.
iemasa tokugawa,the seventeenth family head,who was a prince and president of kizokuin.
iehide tokugawa,who died prematurely.
head family of tokugawa after the war
tsunenari tokugawa,the eighteenth family head,who was adopted from the aizu-matsudaira family,and was a child of ichiro matsudaira and toyoko tokugawa,daughter of iemasa;he was a blood-related grandson of iemasa,the previous family head;and he was a former vice president of nippon yusen kabushiki kaisha(nyk line).
iehiro tokugawa,translator.
