the hashimoto family
the hashimoto family
the family were court nobility of kanin-ryu(the kanin lineage)and saionji-ryu of the northern house of the fujiwara clan.
the family originated with sanetoshi saionji who was the son of kinsuke saionji.
the earl.
described in the main section.
new nobility
tsunatsune hashimoto who served as the army surgeon general was made a baron on october 31,1895 in recognition of his acts of valor.
he then became a viscount on september 23,1907.
the hashimoto belonged to the court nobility and held a family status of the urin.
the family was kanin-ryu of the northern house of the fujiwara clan.
it was branch of the saionji family
the hereditary stipend in the edo period was 500 koku.
the family was awarded the title of earl after the meiji restoration.
the family business was the flute.
the family crest was an onaga-domoe,a japanese traditional pattern of three long tails.
the family originated with sanetoshi hashimoto,the fourth son of kinsuke saionji at the end-kamakura period.
sanetoshi variously identified himself as reizei,hashimoto and irie,the family only settling on the name hashimoto in the generation sanezumi hashimoto,sanetoshi's grandson.
the father-son succession continued until kinkuni hashimoto,the sixth generation,who did not produce an heir,at which point kinnatsu hashimoto(1454-1538)was adopted from the shimizudani family of the same saionji clan.
kinnatsu became a monk in harima province and was succeeded by his adopted grandson sanekatsu hashimoto,but sanekatsu died a violent death in 1588 and the family line was terminated.
thereafter,sanemura hashimoto(a great-grandson of kinnatsu)restarted the family at the beginning of edo period by becoming the adopted son of sanekatsu.
sanekiyo(sanekiyo umezono),the younger brother of sanemura,established a branch family called the umezono family.
sanehisa hashimoto in the late edo period served as giso(a position respsonsible for conveying what the congress decides to the emperor),and also worked as a goyogakari at the time of rebuilding of kyoto imperial-palace in the ansei period.
from the end of edo period to the meiji restoration,saneakira hashimoto played an active role in the affairs of state.
kangyoin(tsuneko,kangyoin),the younger sister of saneakira,worked as a maid of honor to the emperor ninko,and gave birth to imperial princess chikako kazunomiya who was married to iemochi tokugawa,the fourteenth shogun.
kazunomiya was brought up in the hashimoto family after the death of the emperor ninko.
saneyana hashimoto,the son of saneakira,became the general of the force controlling tokaido in the boshin war.
he was made an earl on july 7,1884.
saneaya hashimoto served as a member of the house of lords,the counselor of the internal ministry,and the vice-minister of the education ministry.
