tsuzuki county
japan>kinki region>kyoto prefecture>tsuzuki county
list of provinces of japan>kinai region(provinces surrounding kyoto and nara)>yamashiro province>tsuzuki county
tsuzuki county(or tsuzuki-no-kori)is a county of yamashiro province in kyoto prefecture.
following two towns are included at present:
ide-cho
ujitawara-cho
history
april 10,1879
based on gun-ku-cho-son henseiho(act for the alignment of local government system),the tsuzuki county public office was placed in tanabe-mura village.
april 1,1889
according to the enforcement of municipal organization,one town and thirteen villages,that is yawata-cho,mizu-mura,aotani-mura,tsuzuki-mura,uchigo-mura,tanabe-mura,osumi-mura,fugenji-mura,miyamaki-mura,kusauchi-mura,ide-mura,taga-mura,ujitawara-mura,tawara-mura were establishd in tsuzuki county.
(one town and thirteen villages)
october 12,1906
tanabe-mura became tanabe-cho according to the enforcement of municipal organization.
(two towns and twelve villages)
january 1,1927
ide-mura became ide-cho according to the enforcement of municipal organization.
(three towns and eleven villages)
april 1,1935
mizu-mura was incorporated into yodo-cho,kuse county.
(three towns and ten villages)
july 1,1942
tsuzuki district office which had jurisdiction over tsuzuki county was established in tanabe-cho.
april 1,1951(three towns and five villages)
fugenji-mura,miyamaki-mura,kusauchi-mura,and osumi-mura were incorporated into tanabe-cho.
aotani-mura was merged with three villages from kuse-gun,kutsukawa-mura,tonosho-mura,and terada-mura to form the city of joyo,kuse-gun,and then seceded from the county.
october 1,1954
tsuzuki-mura and uchigo-mura were incorporated into yawata-cho.
(three towns and three villages)
september 30,1956
ujitawara-mura and tawara-mura were merged to inaugurate ujitawara-cho.
(four towns and one village)
april 1,1958
ide-cho and taga-mura were merged to inaugurate ide-cho.
(four towns)
november 1,1977
according to enforcement of municipal organization,yawata-cho became yawata city and seceded from the county
(three towns)
april 1,1997
according to enforcement of municipal organization and changing the name,tanabe-cho became kyotanabe city and seceded from the county.
(two towns)
shikinai-sha(shrines listed in engishiki laws)
engishiki jimmyocho(a register of shrines in japan)described the following total of fourteen shrines consisting of three large shrines and eleven small shrines in yamashiro province,tsuzuki county.
kabainotsuki-jinja shrine(kabainotsuki-jinja shrine in the precincts of mizushi-jinja shrine[mizushi-miyababa,joyo city])grand shrine,monthly niiname
suchi-jinja shrine(oaza tenno,kyotanabe city)
tsukiyomi-jinja shrine(kyotanabe city)(oaza osumi aza ikehira,kyotanabe city)grand shrine,monthly niiname
kuioka-jinja shrine(two of ronja[shrines considered to be descendants of a shikinai-sha],oaza inooka,kyotanabe city,kusauchi miyanoato,kyotanabe city)suki-yugi(spade and arrow case)
taka-jinja shrine(oaza taga,ide-cho,tsuzuki county)suki-yugi(spade and arrow case)
two shrines in uchi-jinja shrine(uchizato,yawata city)
awa-jinja shrine(ichinobe,joyo city)
tanakurahiko-jinja shrine(oaza tanabe,kyotanabe city)grand shrine,monthly niiname
sagano-jinja shrine(present,saga-jinja shrine[oaza miyazu,kyotanabe city])suki-yugi(spade and arrow case)
sakaya-jinja shrine(oaza kodo,kyotanabe city)
kannabi-jinja shrine "甘南備神社" (at present kannabi-jinja shrine "神南備神社" [oaza takigi,kyotanabe city])
ten-jinsha shriine(kyotanabe city)(oaza matsui,kyotanabe city,two of other ronja)
kunitsu-jinja shrine(oaza fugenji,kyotanabe city)
