takano-gawa river
the takano-gawa river,which runs through sakyo ward,kyoto city,kyoto prefecture,is included in the first-class yodo-gawa river system.
the length of the river is seventeen kilometers.
geography
the river originates in the south of tochu-toge pass located at a boundary between sakyo ward,kyoto city and otsu city,shiga prefecture.
then it flows southwards along national route 367.
it merges,at mitaniguchi,a river originating in mitani-toge pass in the northern part of ohara(kyoto prefecture),sakyo ward,and at kodeishi-cho,the takatani-gawa river which originates in mt.tenga-dake located at a boundary between kurama,sakyo ward and ohara,sakyo ward.
it is called the ohara-gawa river from mitaniguchi and also the yase-gawa river around the yase area.
after that,it flows to the south foot of mt.hiei after merging with the ryo-sen river,which originates in a mountain behind sanzen-in temple and also the kusao-gawa river,which originates in a mountain behind jakko-in temple.
it crosses shirakawa-dori street at hanazono-bashi bridge in kamitakano,merging with the iwakura-gawa river,flows along kawabata-dori street,and is merged into the kamo-gawa river(yodo-gawa river system)at kamo-ohashi bridge beside demachiyanagi station.
in maps for kyoto,the character y is often used for indicating the kamo-gawa river,where the one on the right side indicates the takano-gawa river.
nature aspects
japanese giant salamander:japanese giant salamanders,a special natural treasure,live there.
when it rains heavily,it sometimes happens that some of them are flown down to the kyoto city area,surprising people in the area.
history
a geological investigation result points out that,before the japanese capital was moved to heian-kyo,the takano-gawa river might not have been merged into the kamo-gawa river at demachiyanagi(as at present).
according to it,it seems that the river was merged into the kamo-gawa river in the south of the area where the two river merge now.
although there are many opinions,it is highly likely that the river flowed in the heian period as it does at present.
according to nihon koki(the third of the six official national histories),the present takano-gawa river was named the hani-gawa river in the heian period.
according to 'yoshu fushi' (a book describing various aspects of kyoto in the edo period),the river was named "the takano-gawa-river" because it flowed through takano-mura village.
the water of the river was often used for agricultural use,benefiting villages along it,but in droughts,the villages were often brought into conflict with each other.
major bridges
(of the stations of eizan electric railway,yase hieizan-guchi station and those located in the south of the station)
the miyake-kobashi bridge-the miyake-bashi bridge-the hanazono-bashi bridge-the yamabana-bashi bridge-the matsugasaki-bashi bridge-the ma-bashi bridge(馬橋)-the takano-bashi bridge-the tadekura-bashi bridge-the mikage-bashi bridge-the kawai-bashi bridge
regulations
the kyoto prefecture's kamo-gawa river ordinance(being enforced since april of 2008)covers some part of the takano-gawa river as well as the kamo-gawa river.
for example,shooting-up of fireworks is prohibited in some areas of this river.
