shijo kawaramachi
shijo kawaramachi is the intersection name between shimogyo ward and nakagyo ward of kyoto city,kyoto prefecture.
summary
shijo kawaramachi is the name of the intersection where shijo-dori and kawaramachi-dori streets intertwine.
the area near the shijo kawaramachi intersection is one of the most prominent busy streets not only in kyoto city,but in western japan.
shijo-dori street from shijo kawaramachi to shijo karasuma,kawaramachi-dori street from shijo kawaramachi to kawaramachi sanjo,teramachi-dori and shinkyogoku-dori streets from shijo-dori street to oike-dori street combine together to form a busy downtown street.
there is a subway kawaramachi station(kyoto prefecture)of the hankyu corporation's hankyu kyoto main line below the shijo kawaramachi intersection,and is directly connected to hankyu hanshin department store and takashimaya department store by underground passage.
the commercial building kotocross hankyu kawaramachi(book first has its store there)was newly opened at the eastern corner of shijo kawaramachi intersection in october 2007 and is directly connected to kawaramachi station by an underground passage.
shijo station of keihan main line,keihan electric railway is not connected by the underground passage,but it is located just after crossing shijo-ohashi bridge across the kamo-gawa river(yodo-gawa river system),and is easily accessible by keihan lines.
there is gion beyond keihan shijo station and is accessible by foot.
on the other hand,there is no connecting rail to kyoto station where west japan railway company(jr west),central japan railway company(jr central),or kinki nippon railway company(kintetsu railway)are running,and there is a need to ride a bus or use karasuma line,kyoto municipal subway and hankyu kyoto line.
surrounding places of interest
transportation
shijo-dori street
shijo-ohashi bridge
kawaramachi-dori street
teramachi-dori street
shinkyogoku-dori street
kiyamachi-dori street
ponto-cho(ponto town)
kawaramachi station(kyoto prefecture)on the hankyu kyoto main line of hankyu corporation
shijo station(keihan)on the keihan main line of keihan electric railway
commercial facilities
hankyu hanshin department store shijo kawaramachi branch(shijo kawaramachi hankyu).
kyoto takashimaya
kyoto takashimaya-nai post office(post office within kyoto takashimaya)
fujii daimaru
opa
vivre
bus stop
shijo kawaramachi
kyoto municipal bus
kyoto bus
keihan bus
for yamashina ward and daigo station(kyoto prefecture)
