southern region of kyoto prefecture
kyoto prefecture can be divided into three provinces,that is,tango,tanba(including a part of present hyogo prefecture),and yamashiro,by former province system,however,the southern region of kyoto prefecture has roughly five definitions as follows.
1.yamashiro province and the southern part of tanba province,which roughly includes funai county,nantan city,kameoka city,kyoto city,muko city,nagaokakyo city,otokuni county,uji city,joyo city,kuse county,yawata city,kyotanabe city,tsuzuki county,kizugawa city,and sora county(this definition is used for weather forcast as the southern region of kyoto prefecture,and for yamato transport co.,ltd.as the territory of kyoto terminal[the northern region is of kobe terminal in hyogo prefecture]).
2.among the definition 1,area of the yodo-gawa water system(which water could end up in osaka bay through the yodo-gawa river)which includes nantan city(excluding former miyama town,kyoto prefecture),kameoka city,kyoto city,muko city,nagaokakyo city,otokuni county,uji city,joyo city,kuse county,yawata city,kyotanabe city,tsuzuki county and sora county.
3.yamashiro province,which includes kyoto city(excluding former keihoku town),muko city,nagaokakyo city,otokuni county,uji city,joyo city,kuse county,yawata city,kyotanabe city,tsuzuki county and sora county among the region in definition 2.
4.the region which kyoto city is excluded from the region in definition 3.
muko city,nagaokakyo city,otokuni county uji city,joyo city,kuse county,yawata city,kyotanabe city,tsuzuki county and sora county.
5.the region which muko city,nagaokakyo city and otokuni county are excluded from the region in definition 4.
uji city,joyo city,kuse county,yawata city,kyotanabe city,tsuzuki county and sora county.
because kyoto city,the virtual center of the politic and economic,is located in the middle of the central and the southern part of the prefecture and occupies 55 percent of the population,the definition 4 or 5 is often used.
however,because the region in definition 4 is under the control of yamashiro wide-area promotion bureau of kyoto prefecture and muko city,nagaokakyo city,and otokuni county among that region often regarded as a part of kyoto city geographically and economically,therefore,the region in definition 5 in yamashiro area is often regarded as southern region of kyoto prefecture in a narrow sense.
