uji city
located in the south of kyoto prefecture,uji city is known for uji tea and the byodo-in temple,which is registered on the world heritage list.
land was reclaimed from the ogura-ike(ogura pond)in the west of the city,and this is now used for farming as well as housing.
geography
yodo-gawa river
kasatori-yama(mt.kasatori)
ogura-ike(ogura pond)
history
646:doto,a monk at the gango-ji temple,built the uji bridge.
672:the omi court ordered a hashimori(bridge guard)for the uji bridge to interfere with the transport of food for prince oamano.
1052:fujiwara no yorimichi built the byodo-in temple in uji.
1133:the uji rikyu festival was first held.
1180:mochihito-o along with minamoto no yorimasa took up arms,fought against the taira family at the byodo-in temple,and died in the battle.
1183:the battle of ujigawa occurred.
minamoto no yoshitsune defeated yoshinaka kiso's army.
1221:the jokyu no ran(jokyu rebellion)occurred.
the kamakura bakufu(japanese feudal government headed by a shogun)attacked fushimi across the uji river.
1286:eison conducted a memorial service for the souls of the dead following extensive renovations made to the uji bridge with the retired emperors kameyama and gofukakusa in attendance.
1486:the rebels in the yamashiro-no-kuni ikki(yamashiro province riot)gathered at the uji byodo-in temple,and set the kuniju-no-okite(rules for the province).
1573:yoshiaki ashikaga attempted to raise an army in makishima-jo castle in uji,but failed;he was expelled by nobunaga oda.
in 1951:
march 1:the two towns of uji-cho in kuse-gun and higashi-uji-cho in uji-gun,together with the three villages of makishima-mura,ogura-mura as well as okubo-mura were combined to form uji city.
population
administration
mayor:isamu kubota(third term)
economy
industries
tea industry
nintendo,famous for cards and video games,possesses all three of its factories in the city.
kyoto animation is headquartered in the city.
textile industry
the uji factory,the main factory of nippon rayon co.,ltd.,was completed in december 1925.
the company built the factory there because of the relatively easy procurement of vast commercial land and an abundant water supply from the uji river.
in february,the following year,operation of the factory commenced.
the factory has produced chemical fiber such as rayon and nylon ever since.
in october 1969,nippon rayon co.,ltd.and its parent company,nichibo co.,ltd.were merged to form unittika,ltd.,paving the way for the diversified chemicals manufacturer.
the factory has still played an active role in the core business of unittika even though it has been slimmed down to focus on the production of polyester films and plastics.
auto industry
the kyoto factory of nissan shatai co.,ltd.,a subsidiary of nissan motor co.,ltd.,used to be located in the city,but the factory was shut down in 1999 due to financial difficulties.
auto works kyoto co.,ltd.,a subsidiary of nissan shatai,and zero(ゼロ),currently operate in the auto industry of uji city.
additionally,there is nissan technical school kyoto in the neighboring town of kumiyama-cho,with many more facilities related to nissan in the area.
friendship city
nuwaraeliya,sri lanka(april 12,1986)
xianyang city,shanxi province,china(july 24,1986)
kamloops,british columbia,canada(july 1,1990)
district
health
average age:37.90 years old(1995)
education
since uji is a producer of uji tea,community education programs on tea were provided through public elementary and junior high schools.
as part of the programs to provide dietary education,schools have a facility to serve tea from the faucet.
transportation
railways
there are four railway lines:the kintetsu kyoto line,the keihan uji line,the nara line,and the tozai line of the kyoto city subway.
the uji station(jr west)on the jr nara line is located in the center of uji city and the closest to the city hall,but the okubo station(kyoto prefecture)on the kintetsu kyoto line,ranking first in the number of passengers,is the de facto central station of the city.
kintetsu kyoto line
three stations:ogura station(kyoto prefecture),iseda station,and okubo station(kyoto prefecture)
keihan uji line
four stations:kowata station(keihan),obaku station,mimurodo station and uji station(keihan)
*the keihan rokujizo station is located in fushimi ward,kyoto city.
jr nara line
six stations:rokujizo station,kohata station(jr west),obaku station,uji station(jr west),jr ogura station,shinden station(kyoto prefecture)
tozai line of the kyoto city subway
one station:rokujizo station
buses
buses in the city and between the city and the neighboring areas
keihan bus co.,ltd.(rokujizo area only),keihan city bus co.,ltd.,and keihan uji bus co.,ltd.
buses(night bus)between the city and tokyo(shinjuku or shibuya)
keihan bus co.,ltd.
roads
the national highway 24 runs north-south in the west of the city,while the keiji bypass runs east-west.
there are three interchanges in the city:the uji-higashi interchange,the uji-nishi interchange,and the ogura interchange(listed from the eastward).
the keiji bypass is connected to the meishin expressway at the oyamazaki junction and the seta higashi junction.
rental car
area around the kintetsu okubo station and the jr shinden station
uji rent-a-car,minami kyoto rent-a-car,and nippon rent-a-car service,inc.
area around the kintetsu ogura station and the jr ogura station
toyota rent a car
area around the jr rokujizo station and the rokujizo station(kyoto city subway)
toyota rent a car
media
fm uji broadcasting(uji city)
rakunan times,or 'raku-tai' (uji city)
scenic sites,historic sites,tourist spots,festivals and events
naka-no-shima(island in a river)in uji park:tachibana-jima and to-no-shima
13-storey stone pagoda at ukishima
byodo-in temple
manpuku-ji temple
agata-jinja shrine
uji bridge
ujigami-jinja shrine
uji-jinja shrine
eshin-in temple
miruroto-ji temple
taiho-an
kanbayashi kinenkan(kanbayashi memorial hall)
kohata-jinja shrine
amagase dam
anyo-ji temple
historic site of kagero
itsukushima shinto shrine
ruins of tile kiln at uji hayaagari
ryujin-sogusha shrine
uji-ryo(graves of the imperial fujiwara-family)
ochikata-jinja shrine
momiji-dani
shirakami-jinja shrine
9-storey stone pagoda
hashihime-jinja shrine
13-storey stone pagoda
uji-gawa senjin-no-hi(uji river spearhead monument)
kosho-ji temple
akiko yosano kahi(a monument inscribed with poems)
hashidera hojo-in temple
jizo-in temple
to-no-shima
sumiyama
azumaya(a cottage)
matafuri-jinja shrine
manyo kahi(a monument inscribed with a poem)
kiriharamizu spring
leisure
kyoto municipal yamashiro sports park
uji city botanical park
amagase forest park
tourism
tale of genji museum
sankyu-an uji tea laboratory
mt.daikichi observatory
amagase tsuribashi(amagase suspension bridge)
amagase dam
asahi pottery ceramic art museum(朝日焼窯芸資料館)
tea industry center
uji city museum of history
uji city municipal outdoor activity center
kanbayashi shunsho honten(tea wholesaler)
festivals
agata matsuri festival
uji-gawa river cherry blossom festival
ukai(ancient fishing method catching japanese trout by using tamed cormorants)
ujigawa hanabi taikai(firework festival in uji)
cha matsuri(tea festival)
kangetsu chakai(moon-viewing tea ceremony)
zip code
uji post office:611-00
fushimi-higashi post office:601-14
