oe-cho(kyoto prefecture)
oe-cho was a town located in kasa-gun,kyoto prefecture.
on january 1,2006,oe-cho as well as miwa-cho(kyoto prefecture)and yakuno-cho in amata-gun was absorbed by fukuchiyama city,and the town was dissolved.
the town had a wealth of nature such as the oe-yama mountain range and the yura-gawa river,and tried to uniquely promote itself as the 'oni no sato' (village of an ogre)based on the legend of shuten-doji(an ogre)in the oe-yama mountain range.
geography
oe-cho bordered maizuru city to the north,ayabe city to the east,and fukuchiyama city to the west.
the area of oe-cho originally had close ties to maizuru because they both belonged to the tanabe domain in tango province,maizuru prefecture,and then kasa-gun;since the miyafuku line of the kitakinki tango railway opened,however,the area now has closer ties to fukuchiyama today.
the yura-gawa river runs through the area,and the oe-yama mountain range,a symbol of the town with the legend of an ogre,sits on it.
formerly adjacent municipalities
to the east:ayabe city
to the west and south:fukuchiyama city
to the north:maizuru city,miyazu city,and kaya-cho in yosa-gun
history
1951:
on april 1,komori-cho absorbed the five villages of komorikami-mura,arijikami-mura,arijishimo-mura,kawahigashi-mura and kawanishi-mura,and changed its name to oe-cho.
2006:
on january 1,oe-cho as well as miwa-cho and yakuno-cho in amata-gun were absorbed by fukuchiyama city.
the name of the new city remained fukuchiyama city.
politics and government
mayor:takao ito
economy
industry
agriculture
tourism
companies in the town
kyoto hokuto shinkin bank,oe branch
family super fukuya,oe(fukuya co.,ltd.)
metalcolor co.,ltd.
school education
transportation
railroads
kitakinki tango railway(ktr)
miyafuku line of the kitakinki tango railway:gujo station-oe station-oe-kokomae station-futamata station-oe-yamaguchi-naiku station
main station:oe station
the hokutan railway,which connected fukuchiyama station and the center of the town,komori,halted its operation on march 2,1971,and officially closed down on february 28,1974.
the miyafuku line presently runs straight a little to the west of the kitakinki tango railway route.
roads
national routes running in the town:
national route 175
prefectural routes running in the town:
ayabe-oe-miyazu line of the kyoto prefectural route 9
maizuru-fukuchiyama line of the kyoto prefectural route 55
santo-oe line of the hyogo/kyoto prefectural route 63
kisaichi-oe line of the kyoto prefectural route 492
nishizaka-tadewara line of the kyoto prefectural route 493
ayabe-oe line of the kyoto prefectural route 494
high-standard arterial road running outside the town near the border with maizuru city
kyoto longitudinal expressway(ayabe-miyazu road)
nearby interchange:maizuru-oe interchange
scenic sites,historic sites,tourist spots,festivals and events
scenic sites,historic sites and tourist spots
motoise-jingu shrine
yura-gawa river
oe-yama mountain range
futasegawa mountain stream
japan ogre exchange museum
onigawara koen(gargoyle park)
washi(japanese paper)denshokan museum
sai-no-kamo no fuji(japanese wisteria)
festivals and events
motoise haru-no-taisai(grand festival of spring at the motoise-jingu shrine)in april
sai-no-kami no fuji matsuri festival in may
kiryoku no yuragawa natsu-matsuri summer festival in august
motoise hassaku-sai(harvest festival at the motoise-jingu shrine)in september
general assembly of the international oni association in december
others
as for the 'tanada(terraced paddy field)in kehara,' which was selected as one of the top 100 terraced paddy fields in japan,oe-cho had set up the 'tanada farming tour' and the 'ownership system for the tanada.'
