nantan city
nantan is a city located in the tanba province in the central part of kyoto prefecture.
on january 1,2006,nantan city was formed as a result of the merger of the towns of sonobe,yagi and hiyoshi from funai-gun(kyoto prefecture),and the town of miyama from kitakuwada-gun(kyoto prefecture).
nantan was the newest city in the prefecture until kizugawa city was formed in 2007.
no new city was formed in kyoto prefecture until kyotango city was formed in 2004.
nantan means the south of tanba,and other than the city hall within the city,the following are named as facilities prefixed with nantan:the nantan parking area on the kyoto longitudinal expressway,nantan general hospital in yagi-cho,and nantan public health center and nantan civil engineering office which are part of the kyoto prefectural institutions.
however,the nantan wide-area development bureau which is also part of the kyoto prefectural institutions,and kyoto prefectural nantan high school are located in kaneoka city.
any call between yagi-cho(local number of 40s under the control of kameoka city message area(ma))and areas other than yagi-cho(local number of 60s and 70s under the control of sonobe message area(ma))is classified as a long distance call,and the area code(0771)has to be dialed.
city profile
area:616.31 square kilometers
population:35,892
male:17,245
female:18,647
households:13,553
population density:58.24 per square kilometer
(as of may 1,2007)
geography
the city area stretches long in a north-south direction in the shape of severing kyoto prefecture north from south.
nantan is a unique city because rivers running through the city flow into a different sea like the yura-gawa river flows to the japan sea,and the katsura-gawa river flows to the pacific ocean.
nantan is the second largest city to kyoto city in kyoto prefecture.
miyama town is in a heavy snowfall area.
mountains:rurikei river valley(sonobe-cho)and mt.shiun(yagi-cho)
river:katsura-gawa river(yodo-gawa river system;also called oi-gawa river)
river:yura-gawa river(also called miyama-gawa river)
neighboring municipalities
as a municipality adjacent to four prefectures,nantan city is very rare because other than nantan city,only takayama city in gifu prefecture and chichibu city in saitama prefecture are applicable.
kyoto prefecture
kyoto city:ukyo ward and sakyo ward
kameoka city
ayabe city
funai-gun:kyotanba-cho
hyogo prefecture
sasayama city
osaka prefecture
toyono-gun:nose-cho
shiga prefecture
takashima city
fukui prefecture
oi-gun:oi-cho
history
this city has a long history.
although other people have different opinions,nantan city has had a deep relationship with the central administrative government for a long time because the provincial capital was located in former yagi town,and himuro(ice house used to store ice throughout the year prior to the invention of the refrigerator)which is used as a place name at present,was established there.
this may be deeply related to the water transportation system using the katsura-gawa river.
in the muromachi period,the yagi-jo castle was also built as shugosho(governor's office)of the hosokawa family appointed as shugo(governor),in order to comprehensively administer the affairs of the entire area of tanba province.
in the sengoku period(period of warring states),the naito clan appointed as shugodai(representative of provincial shugo)established influence in yagi,ujitsuna araki renowned for military fame established influence in sonobe,and the kawakatsu clan believed to be a scion of the hata clan(however,other people have different opinions)established influence in the town area of miyama,respectively.
in the edo period,the koide clan moved into sonobe,reconstructed the sonobe-jo castle,and formed the sonobe clan.
the koide clan was a feudal lord of this area before the meiji restoration.
before the merger
august 9,2001:established the 'kyoto council on administrative reform of the central area' consisting of one city and eight towns located in the central part of kyoto prefecture
kameoka city,keihoku-cho merged into kyoto city,and three towns merged with kyotanba-cho were also included.
april 1,2004:established the 'council on merger of the towns of sonobe,yagi,hiyoshi and miyama' which would compose nantan city
kazumi nonaka,town mayor of sonobe town,assumed the office of chairperson.
2005:
march 13:held the ceremonial signing of a merger agreement
march 30:made an application to keiji yamada for municipal merger.
august 12:gave notice of establishment of nantan city through an official gazette by the ministry of internal affairs and communications under the name of taro aso
november 21:held the twelfth council meeting on merger equivalent to the final council meeting at the sonobe international community house in sonobe-cho
december 31:dissolved the council on merger
after the merger
january 1,2006:formed nantan city
sister and associated cities
international
manila(philippines)-established a sister city relationship the former yagi town in august 1985.
administration
mayor:toshinori sasaki-receiver general of the former sonobe town
length of term and number of terms:from april 30,2006 to april 29,2010 in the first term
past mayors
administrative agencies
the city hall uses the former sonobe town hall.
*the building and parking space of main building was used as the schoolhouse,gym and playground of sonobe elementary school in sonobe town until 1998.
the schoolhouse became empty due to a relocation of elementary school,and was temporarily used as a welfare facility for the elderly,and then was used as the sonobe town hall.
police practice(kyoto prefectural police)
nantan police station(sonobe-cho)
*miyama-cho was under the jurisdiction of the keihoku police station until april 1,2006;however,since the keihoku police station was abolished under the realignment plan of police station,miyama-cho came under the jurisdiction of the sonobe police station.
the sonobe police station was renamed the nantan police station at that time.
fire-fighting practice-sonobe fire station to the kyoto chubu fire-fighting headquarters
list of branch offices
sonobe branch:tel 0771-68-0010(sonobe branch was abolished on july 31,2007;
the official work of sonobe branch was integrated into that of main office on august 1 due to organizational reconstructing.)
yagi branch:tel 0771-68-0020,fax 0771-42-5616
0771-42-2300 when calling from areas in yagi-cho
hiyoshi branch:tel 0771-68-0030,fax 0771-72-1005
miyama branch:tel 0771-68-0040,fax 0771-75-0801
zip codes
areas under the sonobe branch of japan post service co.,ltd.:622-00,and 629-01,629-02 and 629-03
areas under the kyoto branch of japan post service co.,ltd.:601-07(former miyama town was merged into nantan city,but,any mail to and from the former town is directly handled by the kyoto branch.)
transportation
railroads
a railway line runs only in three towns of sonobe,yagi and hiyoshi,and no railway lines run in the town of miyama.
the railway line running in the above towns is the sanin main line(the line between kyoto station and sonobe station is unofficially called sagano line)of west japan railway company(jr west).
the sanin main line runs from kyoto station to fukuchiyama station via yagi station,yoshitomi station(kyoto prefecture),sonobe station,funaoka station(kyoto prefecture),hiyoshi station(kyoto prefecture),shinkyudaigakumae station and goma station.
major station:sonobe station
roads
expressway
kyoto longitudinal expressway(national route 478)
interchanges located in nantan city are yagi higashi interchange,nantan parking area,yagi naka interchange,yagi nishi interchange and sonobe interchange(kyoto prefecture).
scenic sites,historic sites,tourist spots,festivals and events
rurikei river valley(located in sonobe-cho,ruri-kei river valley listed in nihon no otofukei hyakusen(100 selections of soundscape in japan))
rurikei onsen hot spring(spa of rurikei;listed in the national health hot springs under the name of rurikei river valley highland hot spring which means a name of springhead)
kayabuki-no-sato-kitamura(historic village of thatched room houses;miyama-cho;preservation districts for groups of historic buildings)
saijo-ji temple(shimohiraya,miyama-cho)-honzon(principal image of buddha)is designated as one of the national important cultural properties.
kobayashi family(shimohiraya,miyama-cho)-the premises are designated as one of the national important cultural properties.
house of ishida family(kashiwara,miyama-cho)-this is the oldest house in japan,and is designated as one of the national important cultural properties.
ikimi tenmangu shrine(sonobe-cho)-this is the oldest tenmangu shrine in japan.
tug of war at ookuri-jinja shrine(yagi-cho;held on january 17 every year)
kasuga-jinja shrine(sonobe-cho,nantan city)-honden(inner sanctuary)is designated as one of the national important cultural properties.
oyamazumi-jinja shrine(sonobe-cho,nantan city)
kuhon-ji temple(sonobe-cho,nantan city)-sanmon(temple gate)is designated as one of the national important cultural properties.
make-jinja shrine(sonobe-cho)
site of sonobe-jo castle(sonobe clan)
site of yagi-jo castle(tanba naito clan)
tawara no onda(shinto ritual;designated as significant intangible folk cultural asset)
springs hiyoshi(natural hot spring:hiyoshi onsen hot spring)
companies
otokomae tofuten:head office and kyoto plant
koikeya:kyoto plant(manufacturing of potato crisps)
toraya(based at akasaka,minato ward,tokyo):kyoto plant
