uji gun(uji district)
uji district was a district that existed in yamashiro province and kyoto prefecture.
the district area is located in the current southeastern kyoto city and eastern uji city.
the southeastern kyoto city includes a part of fushimi and yamashina wards.
there are such places as daigo-ji temple,which is famous for the cherry tree of hideyoshi,hino no sato(hino village)where shinran,the founder of jodo shinshu(the true pure land sect of buddhism)was born,the grave of sakanoue no tamuramaro,etc.
in addition,eastern uji city,kyoto prefecture refers to the right river bank area of the uji-gawa river flowing out from lake biwa.
there is manpuku-ji temple,which is the main temple of obaku sect,one of the zen sects,in this surrounding area.
manpuku-ji temple is a famous temple with chinese style architecture.
the founder was ryuki ingen,who supposedly brought in ingenmame(common beans)and tea to japan.
history
april 10,1879:from the gun-ku-cho-son henseiho(act for the alignment of local government system),the joint district public office of uji and kuse districts were established in uji-go of uji district.
(according to the district alignment act,it was placed in uji town of kuse district).
april 1,1889:town and village act was executed,and the four villages of uji,kasatori,daigo,and yamashina villages were established
(four villages).
october 16,1926:yamashina village transformed itself into a town
(one town and three villages).
april 1,1931:yamashina town became a part of higashiyama ward of kyoto city,and daigo village became a part of fushimi city,and fukakusa town of kii district,villages of kamitoba,kisshoin,shimotoba,yokooji,noso,horiuchi,mukaijima,and takeda became a part of kyoto city and fushimi ward was established
(two villages).
april 1,1942:kasatori and uji villages joined together and formed higashi uji town(eastern uji town)
(one town).
july 1,1942:uji district local office was formed in uji town,kuse district to give jurisdiction over uji and kuse districts.
march 1,1951:higashi uji town joined with uji town and villages of makishima,ogura and okubo of kuse district to form uji city while the uji district disappeared since it separated from the district.
go(home village)within the district
eight go within the district seen in "wamyo ruijusho" (dictionary of japanese names).
within the parenthesis is pronounced in the way of kun(the japanese pronunciation of chinese character).
okuni-go
kamino-go
okaya-go(乎加乃也)
amabe-go
ono-go(乎乃)
yamashina-go(也末之奈)
oguri-go(乎久留須)
uji-go
shikinai-sha(shrine listed in engishiki laws)
engishiki jinmyocho(a register of shrines in japan)recorded a total of fifteen shrines,five za(unit used to count buddhist gods or statues)in grand shrine and ten za in lower shines within uji district,yamashina province.
uji-jinja shrine niza(two za)(ujiyamada,uji city)kuwautsubo(hoe and arrow holder)(鍬靫)
ujigami-jinja shrine(ujiyamada,uji city).
himukai-jinja shrine(current himukai-daijingu shrine(hinooka ebisudani-cho,yamashina ward,kyoto city)).
kohata-jinja shrine san za(three za)(two ronja(shrines considered to be descendants of a shikinai-sha)
gokasho furukawa and kobata higashinaka of uji city)myojin-taisha shrine,monthly and niiname rites
amenohohinomikoto-jinja shrine(ishida-cho,yamashina ward,kyoto city)
uji ochikata-jinja shrine(current ochikata-jinja shrine(uji higashiuchi,uji city)(kuwautsubo)
yamashina-jinja shrine niza(two ronja)myojin-taisha shrine,monthly and niiname rites
yamashina-jinja shrine(nishino yamaiwagatani-cho,yamashina ward,kyoto city)
iwaya-jinja shrine(kyoto city)(oyake nakakoji-cho,yamashina ward,kyoto city)
