kamigamo(an area from the east side of the kamo-gawa river to sakyo ward)
kamigamo is the area from the eastern side of the kamo-gawa river in kita ward,kyoto city,kyoto prefecture to sakyo ward.
the northern part of kamo district,from demachi to koyama in the north,is called kamigamo while the southern part is called shimogamo.
it is also the area where the family of kamotaketsunomi no mikoto lived in ancient times.
it was kamotaketsunomi no mikoto who developed the yamashiro area prior to the establishment of heian-kyo(the ancient capital in present-day kyoto).
history
kamigamo was incorporated into kyoto city in 1931.
before that it was kamigamo village,atago county.
it has long been considered as a sacred area owned by kamigamo-jinja shrine.
places of interest
kamigamo-jinja shrine
kamowakeikazuchi-jinja shrine
it is thought to have been built before kamigamo-jinja shrine.
rabbit ear iris in ota-no-sawa swamp is designated as a natural monument.
birthplace of rosanjin kitaoji
there is a stone monument to the south of ota-jinja shrine(kamigamo-kitaoji-cho).
on march 22,2009,one day before the birth date of rosanjin,the unveiling ceremony of this monument was held to commemorate the 50th anniversary of his death.
ota no komichi lane
ota no komichi lane is a hiking trail running along a mountain ridge to the north of ota-jinja shrine.
midoroga-ike pond
monument inscribed with poetry by kamo no suetaka
it stands in a residence(kamigamo-takegahara-cho)located at the northern side of the road which is to the south of ota-jinja-minami intersection,then to the west at the first corner.
a poem describing mt.yoshino in the springtime is inscribed on the monument,and another poem about autumn leaves is on the lower part as well.
kamo no suetaka was a poet who lived in the late edo period and came from shake(a family of shinto priests serving a shrine on a hereditary basis)of the kamigamo-jinja shrine.
suetaka learnt poetry from imperial prince arisugawanomiya yorihito and moved to edo to be with other writers and artists.
he then returned to kyoto to become a priest in kamigamo-jinja shrine and organized a cultural salon named 'unkintei.'
kyoto city preservation district for groups of historic buildings
kyoto city preservation district for groups of historic buildings is an area where the historical cityscape characteristic of kyoto is preserved.
sannei-zaka district,gionshinbashi district,saga toriimoto district and kamigamo district have been designated as the preservation district.
these four districts are also designated as national preservation districts for important traditional buildings.
local specialty
suguki-zuke
suguki-zuke is a kind of pickled vegetable found in kyoto made from suguki leaves.
kamonasu
kamonasu is a large round eggplant of kyo-yasai(vegetable indigenous to kyoto).
yakimochi(fried rice cake)
this rice cake is sold at jinbado and aoiya store,located near kamigamo-jinja shrine bus stop.
festival
aoi-matsuri festival
sanyare-sai festival
sanyare-sai festival(幸在祭)can also be written as山野礼祭using different characters.
the festival is held annually on february 24.
from ancient time,it is believed to be a festival celebrating the coming of age for boys at the age of 15 in the traditional way of counting age.
the ceremonial processions are made up of children from babies born in that year to boys at the age of 15 in the traditional way of counting age.
the ceremonial processions are organized by each town,and is led by a child holding a wooden bar followed by a child ringing a bell and then a child beating a drum.
boys at the age of 15 in the traditional way of counting age are called 'agari' who stand at the back of the procession and beat a drum.
the agari boys wear a kimono of oshima-tsumugi(a kimono fabric woven from colored threads which originated in amami-oshima,south of kyushu),a haori half coat,a white silk scarf around their neck,shirotabi(white japanese socks),and geta(japanese footwear,wooden clogs)made of paulownia wood.
karasu-zumo(literally,crow sumo,a wrestling ceremony)
karasu-zumo is held annually on september 9.
it originates that kamotaketsunomi no mikoto,who was a grandfather of kamowakeikazuchi no mikoto enshrined in kamigamo-jinja shrine,transformed into a sacred crow to lead emperor jinmu on a campaign of his great eastern expedition.
it is a sumo performance by elementary school children.
community activities
afuhi project(also referred as aoi project)
the community works together and plants aoi(hollyhocks)to increase their number in kamigamo-jinja shrine.
kamigamo elementary school replanted hollyhocks they grow to kamigamo-jinja shrine.
some of these hollyhocks are also used for the aoi-matsuri festival.
kamigamo school guard team
in kamigamo region,a school guard team is volunteered to be organized,supported by various groups centered in a residents' joint association,to watch the children,especially commuting to and from school and home safely.
kamigamo elementary school,kamigamo kindergarten,kamigamo nursery school,kamigamo children's center and each parents' associations work together to communicate about security,and so on.
region promoting the use of cycling helmets
kamigamo elementary school,kamigamo kindergarten,kamigamo nursery school and each parents' associations cooperate to encourage the use of cycling helmets.
in 2008 kamigamo elementary school was designated as a school of promoting the use of helmets while cycling by the traffic safety association.
