ukyo ward
the ukyo ward is one of the eleven wards that constitute kyoto city.
located in the north west part of kyoto city,it is the largest ward of all the wards of kyoto city after merging of the former keihoku-cho took place(the sakyo ward was the largest.)
the southern part of the ward,once an area dotted with villas of imperial families and court nobles,is now mainly a residential area.
the western and northern parts are mountainous regions.
wood from yamaguni-go(keihoku yamaguni and kuroda area)were once carried downstream by the katsura-gawa river and landed at saga or umezu for transportation to kyoto.
geography
rivers:katsura-gawa river(yodo-gawa river system)(kamikatsura-gawa river,hozu-gawa river,hozu-kyo gorge),tenjin-gawa river(kyoto city),arisu-gawa river,yuge-gawa river
mountains:mt.atago(kyoto city),mt.ogura,mt.iwata
the northern part of the ward,keihoku,belongs to tanba highland.
almost the entire region is mountainous except the main basins,shuzan--the former site of keihoku town office-and uzu,and the katsura-gawa river runs as if it connects these basins.
the southern part of the ward is almost flat along the katsura-gawa river except for the northern mountainous regions.
keihoku was connected with ukyo ward by the shuzan kaido road(national route 162)or the katsura-gawa river before the merger of keihoku.
history
the region of the present-day ukyo ward has a long history;it was once the site of the ancient provincial capital of yamashiro.
the hata clan,immigrants,are believed to have played an active role in this region and founded koryu-ji temple as their ujidera,or family temple.
the hata clan seems to have a relationship with prince shotoku;he was advised to escape to uzumasa when yamashiro-no-one was attacked by the soga clan.
when emperor kanmu,who had close ties with the hata clan,founded a capital in uda,many temples were founded in present-day ukyo,due to a ban on building temples in the central kyo.
emperor saga built saga-rikyu(imperial villa)(later daikaku-ji temple)and many other nobles adopted the area,enjoying themselves in arashiyma.
after the age of sengoku period(period of warring states),transportation businesses by the katsura-gawa river began to flourish,giving rise to wealthy merchants.
one such merchant is ryoi suminokura in arashiyama,who had a close connection with the tokugawa shogunate and built rivers or canals in various areas.
the suminokura family thrived,making inroads as far as to southeast asia.
after national isolation the family continued to have control over transportation in the katsura-gawa river and established the suminokura yakusho office at every key port of the river lower than the present-day seki,nantan city.
using water transportation via the katsura-gawa river,goods produced in northern tanba were carried through the tenjin-gawa river between the delivery ports arashiyama and tanba.
yamaguni-go was first seen in the history of keihoku as a donor of wood for constructing heian-kyo.
this brought about a relationship between the area and the imperial court,leading to the founding of a temple in yamaguni-go by emperor kogon.
during the age of sengoku period the local uzu clan made its own territory in this area but perished in an attack by mitsuhide akechi.
also yamaguni-tai,which is now famous for its jidai matsuri parade,was formed by local farmers to participate in the imperial army and played an active role in the meiji restoration.
history
april 1,1931:the ukyo ward was founded through a merger of saga-cho kadono-gun,uzumasa-mura,hanazono-mura,sai-mura,umezu-mura,kyogoku-mura,umegahata-mura,matsuo-mura,katsura-mura,and kawaoka-mura with kyoto city.
december 1,1950:oe-mura,otokuni-gun was merged.
november 1,1959:oharano-mura,otokuni-gun was merged.
october 1,1976:the nishikyo ward was separated from the ukyo ward(matsuo,katsura,kawaoka,oe and oharano area belonged to nishikyo ward.)
april 1,2005:keihoku-cho kitakuwada-gun was merged.
ward office
the ukyo ward office(government complex building)was relocated from a building in front of uzumasa koryuji station to sansa ukyo,a complex facility within the uzumasa tenjingawa station of kyoto municipal subway tozai line.
(new)ukyo ward office(scheduled to open after mid-march,2008)
zip code(stub)
12 uzumasa-shimokeibu-cho,ukyo ward,kyoto city
ukyo ward office(until mid-march,2008)
616-8511
31 uzumasa-hachioka-cho,ukyo ward,kyoto city
tel:075-861-1101(the main switchboard number)
saga branch office
616-8422
35 saga-shakado-daimon-cho,ukyo ward,kyoto city
tel:075-861-0006
takao branch office
616-8283
26-1 umegahata-okutono-cho,ukyo ward,kyoto city
tel:075-861-0153
toin branch office
616-8475
2-5 saga-shikimigahara-miyanoue-cho,ukyo ward,kyoto city
tel:0771-44-0314
keihoku branch office
601-0292
1-1 kamiterada keihoku-shuzan-cho,ukyo ward,kyoto city
tel:0771-52-0300(the main switchboard number)
adjacent municipalities
kita ward,kyoto city
sakyo ward,kyoto city
nakagyo ward,kyoto city
shimogyo ward,kyoto city
minami ward,kyoto city
nishikyo ward,kyoto city
kameoka city
nantan city
transportation
railroads
arashiyama main line of the keifuku electric railroad co.,ltd.
(to/from shijo-omiya station)-saiin station-nishioji sanjo station-yamanouchi station(kyoto prefecture)-randen tenjingawa station-kaikonoyashiro station-uzumasa koryuji station-katabiranotsuji-arisugawa station-kurumazakijinja station-rokuoin station-randen saga station-arashiyama station(keifuku electric railroad co.,ltd.)
kitano line of the keifuku electric railroad co.,ltd.
katabiranotsuji station-tokiwa station(kyoto prefecture)-narutaki station-utano station-omuro-ninnaji station-myoshinji station-ryoanji station-(to/from kitano hakubaicho station)
west japan railway company(jr west)sanin main line(sagano line)
(to/from kyoto station)-hanazono station(kyoto prefecture)-uzumasa station-saga arashiyama station-(to/from sonobe station)
sagano scenic line of the sagano scenic railway
saga torokko station-arashiyama torokko station-(to/from torokko kameoka station)
hankyu kyoto main line of hankyu corporation
(to/from juso station)-nishikyogoku station-saiin station-(to/from kawaramachi station(kyoto prefecture))
tozai line of the kyoto municipal subway
uzumasa tenjingawa station-(to/from nijo station)
buses
west jr bus company
kyoto bus co.,ltd.
keihan kyoto kotsu
kyoto city bus
roads
toll roads
arashiyama takao parkway
scenic sites,historic sites,tourist spots,specialty,festivals and events
hanazono(kyoto city)
myoshin-ji temple-sub-temple,especially one founded to commemorate the death of a high priest,which includes keishun-in temple,shunko-in temple,and taizo-in temple
uzumasa
koryu-ji temple
toei movie land(kyoto uzumasa eigamura)
umezu
umenomiya-taisha shrine
chofuku-ji temple
kinugasa
ryoan-ji temple
omuro
ninna-ji temple
narutaki(ukyo ward,kyoto city)
ryotoku-ji temple
arashiyama
tenryu-ji temple
honen-ji temple(kyoto city)
togetsu-kyo bridge
mt.ogura
kameyama park(kyoto city)
shigure-den-a facility featuring hyakunin isshu,one hundred waka poems
misora hibari museum
mt.iwata
sagano
jojakko-ji temple
nison-in temple
rakushisha
daikaku-ji temple
seiryo-ji temple(saga shaka-do)
nonomiya-jinja shrine
saga toriimoto
adashino nenbutsu-ji temple
otagi nenbutsu-ji temple(kyoto city)
mt.atago(kyoto city)
atago-jinja shrine(kyoto city)
gatsurin-ji temple,tsukinowa-dera temple
kuya-taki waterfall
takao(kyoto city)
jingo-ji temple
makio
saimei-ji temple(kyoto city)
toganoo
kozan-ji temple
keihoku(kyoto city)
joshoko-ji temple
others
hozukyo gorge
mizuo
aburi-mochi rice cake-saga seiryo-ji temple is famous for it.
others
post offices in charge of collection and delivery for the following zip codes are as follows:
ukyo post office:615-xxxx
kyoto nishi post office:616-xxxx
shuzan post office:601-02xx,601-03xx,601-04xx,601-05xx
