kizu-gawa river(kyoto prefecture)
the kizu-gawa river,a tributary of the yodo-gawa river system flowing through mie and kyoto prefectures,is a class a river.
the tsuge-gawa and hattori-gawa rivers flow into the kizu-gawa river in iga city,mie prefecture,where it gathers into the nabari-gawa river in minami yamashiro-mura,soraku-gun,kyoto prefecture.
the kizu-gawa river upstream from the nabari-gawa river junction is sometimes referred to as iga-gawa river.
geography
the kizu-gawa river originates in the aoyama-kogen highlands and flows north through the eastern part of iga city,mie prefecture.
joined in the north of iga city by the tsuge-gawa river flowing from mt.aburahi-dake(694 meters)in the suzuka mountain range and the hattori-gawa river from mt.kasatori(845 meters)in the nunobiki mountains,the kizu-gawa river changes its course west.
a valley is formed around the border between mie and kyoto prefectures,and the kizu-gawa river is joined in minami yamashiro-mura,soraku-gun by the nabari-gawa river originating in mt.miune(1235 meters)in the takami-sanchi mountains.
the river turns north at kizugawa city,again.
the river gradually changes its course to the northwest in the east of kyotanabe city,merges with the uji-gawa river(the main river of the yodo-gawa river system),flowing from northeast and with the katsura-gawa river(yodo-gawa river system)running from north at the western edge of yawata city around the border between kyoto and osaka prefectures,and changes its name to yodo-gawa river.
popularly known as 'nagare bashi' (floating bridge),the kozuya-bashi bridge,whose bridge timbers are detached from the bridge pier when the water level in the river rises,is located about five km upstream from the junction.
the kansai main line(west japan railway company)and the national route 163 run parallel from iga city to kizugawa city.
along the middle and lower kizu-gawa river to the north of kizugawa city run the nara line(west japan railway company)and the national route 24 on the east side of the river and the katamachi line(west japan railway company)and the kintetsu kyoto line(kintetsu railway)on the west side.
iga city(iga-ueno area)is home to many tourist spots such as ueno-jo castle,iga-ryu ninjutsu yashiki(iga school ninja house),and the haisei-den,a memorial hall for basho matsuo.
additionally,kasagi-cho has the kasagi-dera temple,which was designated as the anzaisho(a temporary palace)of emperor godaigo during the genko no ran(genko rebellion)in 1331.
many tea plant fields are seen along the riverside of the kizu-gawa river,especially around kyotanabe city.
municipalities along the river
mie prefecture:iga city
kyoto prefecture:minami yamashiro-mura,kasagi-cho,wazuka-cho[1]in soraku-gun,kizugawa city,seika-cho in soraku-gun,kyotanabe city,ide-cho in tsuzuki-gun[1],joyo city[1],yawata city,kumiyama-cho in kuse-gun[1],and fushimi ward in kyoto city[1](1.these municipalities are located only on the right side of the river.)
events
kizu-gawa river marathon:a marathon held every february which starts in the kusauchi kizu-gawa river sports park in kyotanabe city,and runs mainly along the bicycle path on the south side of the river,finishing in the park.
