kii county
list of provinces of japan>kinai region(provinces surrounding kyoto and nara)>yamashiro province>kii county
kii-gun(or kii-no-kori)was a county once existed in yamashiro province,in kyoto prefecture.
history
april 10,1879
based on gun-ku-cho-son henseiho(act for the alignment of local government system),the kii county public office was placed in 2,fushimi itabashi(later,fushimi-cho).
april 1,1889
according to the enforcement of municipal organization,two towns,i.e.fushimi-cho and yanagihara-cho,and ten villages were established in kii county.
(two towns and ten villages)
april 1,1918(one town and nine villages)
yanagihara-cho,higashikujo-mura,kamitoba-mura and a part of fukakusa-mura were incorporated into shimogyo ward,kyoto city.
the rest of higashikujo-mura was incorporated into kamitoba-mura.
october 1,1922
fukakusa-mura became fukakusa-cho according to enforcement of municipal organization.
(two towns and eight villages)
may 1,1929
fushimi-cho became fushimi city according to the enforcement of municipal organization,and seceded from the country.
(one town and eight villages)
april 1,1931
kamitoba-mura and kisshoin-mura were incorporated into shimogyo ward,kyoto city(later,minami ward[kyoto city]),as well as fukakusa-cho,shimotoba-mura,yokooji-mura,nouso-mura,horiuchi-mura,mukaijima-mura,takeda-mura,together with fushimi city and daigo-mura uji county,were incorporated into kyoto city,resulting in the inauguration of fushimi ward.
kii county disappeared at the same time.
villages(go)inside the country
wamyoruiju-sho(kango-japanese dictionary)described the following eight villages(go)in this country.
the words in parentheses are chinese characters read in their japanese pronunciation.
okada-go
osato-go
kii-go
toba-go
ishihara-go
haishi-go
fukakusa-go
ishi-go
shikinai-sha(shrines listed in engishiki laws)
engishiki jimmyocho(a register of shrines in japan)described the following total of eight shrines consisting of three large shrines and five small shrines in yamashiro province,kii county.
mimoro-jinja shrine(fushimi inari taisha shrine[fukakusayabunouchi-cho,fushimi ward,kyoto city],as of now)
three shrines in inari-jinja shrine(fushimi inari taisha shrine[fukakusayabunouchi-cho,fushimi ward,kyoto city],as of now)
okura-jinja shrine(location unknown)
asukada-jinja shrine(一名柿本社)(three ronja[shrines considered to be descendants of a shikinai-sha])
tanaka-jinja shrine(yokooji tennogo,fushimi ward,kyoto city)
askukada-jinja shrine(yokooji kakinomoto-cho,fushimi ward,kyoto city)
askukada-jinja shrine(shimotoba shironokosi-cho,fushimi ward,kyoto city)
two shrines in mahataki-jinja shrine(mahataki-jinja shrine,as of now,a sub-shrine in the precincts of jonangu shrine[shimotoba nakajimagugo-cho,fushimi ward,kyoto city])
