sonobe-cho
sonobe-cho is a municipality which existed in the central part of kyoto prefecture until december 31,2005,and is a castle town of sonobe-jo castle.
nantan city was formed through the merger between sonobe-cho and the surrounding four towns on january 1,2006,bringing a close to the history of sonobe-cho as a municipality.
at present,sonobe-cho only exists as the name of an administrative district of nantan city.
geography
mountains
mt.taikonji
miyama
rivers
katsura-gawa river(yodo-gawa river system):river under the yodo-gawa river system which starts from sakyo ward,kyoto city
it is called oi-gawa river in kameoka city,and hozu-gawa river in the area around arashiyama.
sonobe-gawa river:river which starts from miyama in sonobe-cho,forms the rurikei river valley,and meets the katsura-gawa river(yodo-gawa river system)
honme-gawa river:river which starts in kameoka city,and meets the sonobe-gawa river
scenic area
rurikei river valley
history
it is said that a local clan named ujitsuna araki existed in the sonobe-jo castle during the late sengokou period(period of warring states)(japan),and resisted against mitsuhide akechi.
however,full-fledged development of sonobe started when the koide clan was transferred to sonobe in 1619.
politics and government
town mayor:kazumi nonaka(younger blood brother of hiromu nonaka)
economy
education
neighboring municipalities
kameoka city
funai-gun:kyotanba-cho,hiyoshi-cho(kyoto prefecture)and yagi-cho
sasayama city,hyogo prefecture
toyono-gun,osaka prefecture:nose-cho
transportation
the major means of transportation is vehicles using the kyoto longitudinal expressway or national route 9,and keihan kyoto kotsu provides bus service operating to downtown kyoto city through kameoka.
railroads
jr sanin main line:between sonobe station and funaoka station(kyoto prefecture)
main station in the town:sonobe station
roads
expressway
kyoto longitudinal expressway(national route 478)
sonobe interchange(kyoto prefecture)
scenic sites,historic sites,tourist spots,festivals and events
rurikei river valley(ruri-kei river vally listed in nihon no otofukei hyakusen(100 selections of soundscape in japan)
rurikei onsen hot spring(spa of rurikei;listed in the national health hot springs under the name of rurikei river valley highland hot spring which means a name of springhead)
sonobe park
ikimi tenmangu shrine
kuroda ancient burial mound
others
michi-no-eki rest area, 'kyoto shinkoetsu-mura,' opened on july 17,2003.
the pass on route 9 toward tanba-cho is kannon-toge mountain pass.
the amabiki-toge mountain pass tunnel was created on national route 372 toward sasayama city.
both passes are hard to go through.
the kyoto longitudinal expressway makes it possible to bypass kannon-toge mountain pass.
