town names in fushimi ward,kyoto city
this section on "town names in fushimi ward,kyoto city" lists official town names in fushimi ward and summarizes the period and process of their establishment.
summary of fushimi ward
fushimi ward is located in the southern part of kyoto city.
it stretches east and west,and includes fushimi district as its center,a castle town of the fushimi-jo castle well-known for its sake brewing industry,as well as fukakusa district in the north,daigo district in the east and suburban district in the west and the south.
the eastern part of the ward is mountain terrain with mt.daigo in the center and the western part is flatland along the uji-gawa river and the katsura-gawa river.
in the southern part of the ward stretches ogura-ike reclaimed land extending over uji city and the town of kumiyama-cho.
the ward slightly shares a border with otsu city,shiga prefecture in the mountains at its east end.
it is bordered with yamashina ward,higashiyama ward and minami ward(kyoto city)in the north,muko city,nagaokakyo city and oyamazaki-cho in the west and uji city,kumiyama-cho and yawata city in the south.
it covers an area of 61.62 square kilometers.
its population is estimated to be about 283,000 as of march 2009.
it includes the former kii and uji counties in the center and a part of the former otokuni,kuse and tsuzuki counties in the west.
there are fushimi-inari taisha shrine,daigo-ji temple,the ruins of fushimi-jo castle,fushimi-no-momoyama-no-misasagi which is the imperial mausoleum of emperor meiji,kyoto race course and so on in the ward.
the ward was established in 1931.
in the same year,kyoto city expanded its area by integrating many towns and villages into it and fushimi ward was established integrating fushimi city,fukakusa town,horiuchi village,takeda village,shimotoba village,yokooji village,mukaijima village,noso village in kii county and daigo village,uji county.
afterward,fushimi ward integrated into it koga and hatsukashi villages,otokuni county in 1950 and yodo town,kuse county in 1957.
summary of town names
the town names of kyoto city are categorized into those using their former village names or former oaza(large section of village)such as 'ohara raikoin-cho' (in this case, 'ohara' is the former name)and those using an independent name of a town such as 'kameya-cho' and 'kikuya-cho.'
the former fushimi city district in the center of fushimi ward uses independent town names while the rest of the city uses,in principle,complex names including those prefixed by former names of oaza(large section of village)and so on.
according to the second volume of "kadokawa nihon chimei daijiten no.26 kyoto-fu" (kadokawa dictionary of place-names of japan,no.26 kyoto prefecture),there were officially 630 declared towns as of 1980.(a town called with 'chome' is counted as a town.).
while most of these towns still exist in 2009,the names and the borders of some towns were changed in accordance with the land readjustment project in 1997 and 2006 and the number of towns became 642 with 12 towns having been increased.
on some maps,the postal code list and so on,there are some town names which are not contained in the above kadokawa dictionary of place-names as the official town names,which will be discussed in detail below.
the former fushimi city district
number of towns
the central part of fushimi ward was the castle town of fushimi-jo castle constructed by hideyoshi toyotomi and has been urbanized since the early-modern times.
"fushimi taigaiki" (the general record of fushimi)of 1718 states that there were town societies called machigumi at the time in fushimi,in which nine kitagumi(the north unit)and nine minamigumi(the south unit)were organized,and it describes 263 town names.
some of these 263 towns belonged to more than one machigumi and so the real number of towns were a little smaller than 263.
from the end of edo period to the early meiji period,some towns were divided into 'east and west' or 'upper and lower' and some neighboring towns not belonging to any machigumi were integrated into fushimi,and there existed 267 towns in the early meiji period.
out of these towns,48 were integrated into some surrounding villages in 1877 and 31 in 1889 and 188 towns remained.
of the 15 towns integrated into the then rokujizo village in 1877,9 towns belong to uji city in the current administrative division.
at the time of establishment of fushimi city in 1929,some towns that had been divided into 'east and west' or 'upper and lower' were reintegrated and some small towns were incorporated into neighboring towns,resulting in the number of 168 towns with the decrease of 20.
however,the above numbers of towns were based on counting each 'chome' as one town such as '1-chome,2-chome,3-chome,4-chome ginza-cho' and so on.
change of administrative division
at the time of establishment of kyoto prefecture in 1868,fushimi district was organized into bangumi(town unit)nos.1 to 17.
in 1872,it was reorganized into 16 wards and each ward came to be called 'fushimi ward no.x.'
in 1874,hamagawa town was integrated into gofuku town,and furoya town disappeared to be integrated into kamikoya town and shimoitabashi town,resulting in number of towns at that time of 267.
in the same year,these 267 towns were reorganized into wards nos.1 to 4.
in 1877,48 towns in total were integrated into the surrounding villages,i.e.,horiuchi village(8 towns),fukakusa village(5),okamedani village(16),rokujizo village(15)and kagekatsu village(4),resulting in the number of towns of 219.
upon promulgation of gun-ku-cho-son henseiho(act for the alignment of local government system),fushimi ward was established in 1879,and the wards nos.3 and 4 of the above four wards were divided into two respectively,resulting in the establishment of six kumi(unit),with each unit being called 'fushimi kumi no.x.'
in january,1881,fushimi ward was abolished and fushimi kumi nos.1 to 6 became kii county kumi nos.5 to 10.
these six kumi became six rengo(federations)in october in the same year and were given names including 'rengo of yamamura town and other 34 towns.'
in 1884,the names of rengo were changed such as the above 'rengo of yamamura town and other 34 towns' being renamed to 'rengo of sujikaibashi 3-chome and other 34 towns.'
in accordance with the enforcement of the municipal government act in 1889,fushimi town,kii county was established.
at that time,28 towns were integrated into fukakusa village and three towns into mukaijima village and the remaining 188 towns became oaza of fushimi town.
at the same time,kagekatsu village was integrated into the town and became oaza kagekatsu,and fushimi town came to consist of 189 oaza in total.
it became a municipality as fushimi city in 1929,and the number of towns in the former fushimi district became 168 with 20 towns having been decreased as above-mentioned.
at the same time,oaza kagekatsu was divided into eight towns,which made the number of towns in fushimi city 176 in total.
the table below shows a summary of the above history.
change of town names
due to the changes of administrative district,the name has changed as examples below shows for one and the same town.
(edo period-1881)higashi-machi
(1881-1889)fushimi higashi-machi
(1889-1929)oaza higashi,fushimi-machi
(1929-1931)higashi-machi,fushimi city
(1931-the present)higashi-machi,fushimi ward,kyoto city
list of official town names(the former fushimi city)
while there are no administrative divisions today corresponding to the past machigumi and 'wards',explanation will be made,for convenience' sake,according to the divisions at the time of the reorganization of the former four wards into six kumi in 1879.
the number of towns which belonged to the former fushimi kumi no.1 was 35 in 1879,which has become four today through the following changes.
(28 towns integrated into fukakusa village in 1889)towns of ijiki,jinai,nanasegawa,kita hasuike,minami hasuike,kagiya,yamamura,inarienokibashi,inarinakano,inarionmae,jukyuken,genba,kita shin-machi,gokuraku,toriizaki,1-chome sujikaibashi-kita,1-chome sujikaibashi-minami,2-chome to 11-chome sujikaibashi(counted as 10 towns),sujikaibashi kata-machi
(merged in 1929)sumizomeyoko,shichiken,nanshin＝>sumizome-cho
(integrated in 1929)horinoue＝>10-chome,kyo-machi
(renamed in 1929)kita ebisu＝>shumoku-machi
the number of towns which belonged to the former fushimi kumi no.2 was 51 in 1879,which has become 46 today through the following changes.
(merged in 1929)higashi sumiyoshi and nishi sumiyoshi＝>sumiyoshi-cho,kita ebiya and minami ebiya＝>ebiya-cho
(integrated in 1929)kansuke＝>tsuchibashi-cho,komeya＝>higashi daimonji-cho,higashi 8-chome＝>nishi daikoku-cho
(renamed in 1929)horizumeshin＝>horizume-cho,2-chome shujaku＝>higashi shujaku-cho,4-chome shujaku＝>nishi shujaku-cho
the number of towns which belonged to the former fushimi kumi no.3 was 30 in 1879,which has become 29 today through the following changes.
(integrated in 1929)shinshichi＝>kannonji-cho
(renamed in 1929)2-chome itabashi＝>shimoitabashi-cho,higashimachi higashigumi＝>higashi kumi-cho,shindaikoku＝>setomono-cho,bingo＝>higashi ote-cho
the number of towns which belonged to the former fushimi kumi no.4 was 40 in 1879,which has become 33 today through the following changes.
(merged in 1929)kamifuroya and shimofuroya＝>furoya-machi,kaminanbu and shimonanbu＝>nanbu-cho,kita kume and minami kume＝>kume-cho
(integrated in 1929)minami ura＝>katahara-cho,gofuku＝>higashi sakai-machi,higashi amagasaki＝>nishi amagasaki-cho,nishi hishiya＝>nishi daimonji-cho
(renamed in 1929)shimoote＝>nishi ote-cho,omiya 6-chome＝>omiya-cho,1-chome and 2-chome juraku＝>1-chome and 2-chome juraku-cho,nishi shioya＝>toiya-machi,minami ebisu＝>ebisu-cho
the number of towns which belonged to the former fushimi kumi no.5 was 35 in 1879,which has become 32 today through the following changes.
(merged in 1929)kamikitahama and shimokitahama＝>kitahama-cho
(integrated in 1929)shumoku＝>kamiaburakake-cho,tanba＝>yamazaki-cho
(renamed in 1929)tatewaki＝>naya-machi,yamazaki＝>awabashi-cho
the number of towns which belonged to the former fushimi kumi no.6 was 28 in 1879,which has become 24 today through the following changes.
(three towns integrated into mukaijima village in 1889)shimono-cho,nakano-cho,hashizume-cho
(integrated in 1929)genba＝>bungobashi-cho
the town names from kita nekoya-cho to jibu-cho in 'others' belonged to the former kagekatsu village.
it was oaza kagekatsu,fushimi town from 1889 to 1929 and was divided into eight towns when fushimi city was established.
in accordance with the land readjustment project,nekoya-cho was abolished and kita nekoya-cho and minami nekoya-cho were newly established in 2006,which made the current number of towns nine.
the names of the five towns including toryo-cho in 'others' were established after they were integrated into kyoto city.(the names before the new names were established are unknown.)
toryo-cho was established around 1951,katagiri-cho around 1959,and higashi bugyo-cho,nishi bugyo-cho and bugyomae-cho were separated from toryo-cho in 1961.
the number of towns above is 182 in total.
the number is based on counting each of 'chome' such as in '1-chome to 14-chome shin-machi' as one town.
if '1-chome to 14-chome shin-machi' is counted as one town rather than counted on the basis of 'chome,' then the number is 142 with 40 towns being reduced.
other districts
former fukakusa town
fukakusa town,kii county was integrated into kyoto city in 1931 and became a part of fushimi ward.
fukakusa town was fukakusa village at the time of the enforcement of the municipal government act in 1889 and was established as a town in 1922.
when the village system became effective in 1889,fukakusa village integrated 28 towns out of 35 towns which had belonged to the former fushimi kumi no.1,which were then reorganized into the following 19 oaza.
inarionmae,inarienokibashi,inarinakano,1-chome sujikaibashi-minami,1-chome sujikaibashi-kita,2-chome to 11-chome sujikaibashi(10 towns of 2 to 11-chome counted as one oaza),yamamura,jukyuken,sujikaibashi katamachi,genba,toriizaki,kitashin,nanasegawa,minami hasuike,kagiya,kita hasuike,gokuraku,jinai,ijiki
since 2-chome to 11-chome sujikaibashi are counted as 10 towns or as one oaza,the above '28 towns' and '19 oaza' indicate substantially the same district.
these 19 oaza became oaza of fukakusa town after the town system took effect in 1922 and were reorganized into 21 towns prefixing the name 'fukakusa' when fushimi ward was established in 1931.(oaza kitashin was divided into kita shin-machi,yoshimoto-cho and yoshinaga-cho while 2-chome to 11-chome sujikaibashi were counted as one town.)
there had been three oaza,i.e.,fukakusa,fukuine and okamedani,in addition to the above 19 oaza in fukakusa village(later became fukakusa town),which were then reorganized into 117 towns when fushimi ward was established in 1931.
out of these,oaza fukakusa was reorganized into 74 towns prefixing the name 'fukakusa.'
a part of oaza fukuine was integrated into then shimogyo ward(the current higashiyama ward)in 1918 and the remaining part was reorganized into 26 towns prefixing the name 'fukakusa' in 1931.
oaza okamedani was reorganized into 17 towns prefixing the name 'fukakusa okamedani' in 1931.
in addition,town names were newly established,changed or abolished as follows:
(established in 1949)kanjinbashi-cho(a part of then kamitoba kanjinbashi-cho,shimogyo ward)
(abolished in 1949)karame-cho,hattanda-cho,komori-cho,matsumoto-cho,ryo-machi(these five towns were integrated into nishiura-cho in the former oaza fukakusa.)
(abolished/established in 1967)nishiura-cho was abolished to be reorganized as 1 to 8-chome,nishiura-cho.
(established in 1980)okamedani higashi furugoko-cho,okamedani higashi anshin-cho
in addition to the above,the mt.inari district to the east of fushimi inari taisha shrine is called 'mt.inari government-owned land' although the year established is unknown.
as above,the number of town names of this district is 137 including 'mt.inari government-owned land.'
former daigo village
daigo village,uji county was integrated into kyoto city and became a part of fushimi ward in 1931.
there were five oaza,i.e.,daigo,hino,ishida,kita ogurisu and minami ogurisu in daigo village.
out of these,oaza daigo was reorganized into 67 towns prefixing the name 'daigo' when fushimi ward was established in 1931.
afterwards,the number of towns prefixing the name 'daigo' became 66 through the following changes.
(established in 1966)otaka-cho
(abolished in 1966)takada,miyanoshita-cho
among the towns in this district,daigo ichinokiri-cho,daigo ninokiri-cho and daigo sannokiri are located at the east end of the district in the mountain region,which shares borders with otsu city and uji city and can be accessed only from otsu city area.
oaza hino was reorganized into 19 towns prefixing the name 'hino' in 1931.
oaza ishida was reorganized into nine towns prefixing the name 'ishida' in 1931.
oaza kita ogurisu and oaza minami ogurisu were reorganized into 15 towns prefixing the name 'ogurisu' in 1931.
among these,the nine towns,ushigafuchi-cho,nishidani-cho,kitadani-cho,hachifuse,nishinomine,morigafuchi-cho,iwagafuchi-cho,maruyama,kitagoto-cho belonged to the former oaza kita ogurisu and the remaining six towns belonged to the former oaza minami ogurisu.
former horiuchi village
horiuchi village,kii county was integrated into kyoto city and became a part of fushimi ward in 1931.
there had been two oaza,i.e.,horiuchi and rokujizo in horiuchi village,which were reorganized into 55 towns prefixing the name 'momoyama-cho.'
out of the 55 towns,the following 18 towns(all prefixing the name 'momoyama-cho')belonged to the former oaza rokujizo and the remaining 37 towns belonged to the former oaza horiuchi.
izumi,shin-machi,mitsuke-cho,toyama,higashi-machi,akiyama,machinami,yosai,oshima,hyuga,yamanoshita,kosetsu,iba,nishio,nakajima-cho,inaba,nishi-machi,otsu-cho
afterwards,the names and the borders of some towns were changed as follows and the number of towns prefixing the names 'momoyama-cho' or 'momoyama' became 68.
while the towns established in 1931 are named 'momoyama-cho-----,' the towns newly established or renamed later are named 'momoyama-----cho.'
(abolished/established in 1943)mizunosakon,momoyama-cho＝>momoyama mizunosakon higashi-machi/nishi-machi,nagaokaecchu,momoyama-cho＝>momoyama nagaokaecchu higashi-machi/minami-machi/kita-machi,fukushimadayu,momoyama-cho＝>momoyama fukushimadayu nishi-machi/minami-machi/kita-machi,morinagato,momoyama-cho＝>momoyama morinagato higashi-machi/nishi-machi,iikamon,momoyama-cho＝>momoyama iikamon higashi-machi/nishi-machi,tsutsuiiga,momoyama-cho＝>momoyama tsutsuiiga higashi-machi/nishi-machi,hashibachokichi,momoyama-cho＝>momoyama hashibachokichi higashi-machi/naka-machi/nishi-machi,mogami,momoyama-cho＝>momoyama mogami-cho
(established in 1956)momoyama chikuzendai-machi
(renamed in 1968)mukaijima yogoro-cho＝>momoyama yogoro-cho,mukaijima oshima-cho＝>momoyama minami oshima-cho
(established/abolished in 1980)kosetsu,momoyama-cho＝>momoyama kosetsu-cho
among the towns prefixing the name 'momoyama-cho,' danjojima,kanaidojima and shinsai are detached towns away from the central part of the district.
former takeda village,shimotoba village
takeda village,kii county was integrated into kyoto city and became a part of fushimi ward in 1931.
takeda village did not include any oaza,and the village area was reorganized into 23 towns prefixing the name 'takeda' in 1931.
afterwards,the number of town names prefixing 'takeda' became 27 through the following changes in accordance with the land readjustment project.
(established in 1997)nishi okenoi-cho,naka uchihata-cho,nishi uchihata-cho,higashi koyanouchi-cho,nishi koyanouchi-cho,tobadono-cho
(abolished in 1997)koyanouchi-cho,nebarigawa-cho
shimotoba village,kii county was integrated into kyoto city and became a part of fushimi ward in 1931.
shimotoba village included two oaza,i.e.,nakajima and shimotoba.
out of the two,oaza nakajima was reorganized into 12 towns prefixing the name 'nakajima' in 1931.
afterwards,the number of town names prefixing 'nakajima' became 12 through the following changes in accordance with the land readjustment project.
(established in 1997)tobarikyu-cho
(abolished in 1997)miyanogo-cho
oaza shimotoba was reorganized into 24 towns prefixing the name 'shimotoba' in 1931.
afterwards,the number of town names prefixing 'shimotoba' became 31 through the following changes in accordance with the land readjustment project.
(established in 1997)higashi serikawa-cho,nishi serikawa-cho
(established in 2006)kita san-cho,naka san-cho,minami san-cho,kita enmenden-cho,naka enmenden-cho,minami enmenden-cho,higashi yanagiosa-cho,nishi yanagiosa-cho,minami yanagiosa-cho,minami rokutannaga-cho
(abolished in 2006)san-cho,enmenden-cho,yanagiosa-cho,sugama-cho,shojaku-cho
the main part of shimotoba serikawa-cho was divided into shimotoba higashi serikawa-cho and shimotoba nishi serikawa-cho and only the former detached towns exist.
the former yokooji village,mukaijima village,noso village
yokooji village,kii county was integrated into kyoto city and became a part of fushimi ward in 1931.
yokooji village included three oaza,i.e.,yokooji,shimomisu and misu.
out of these,oaza yokooji was reorganized into 32 towns prefixing the name 'yokooji' in 1931,oaza shimomisu into 8 towns prefixing the name 'yokooji shimomisu' in the same year and oaza misu into 5 towns prefixing the name 'yokooji misu' in the same year,respectively.
afterwards,the number of towns prefixing the name 'yokooji' became 32(except for the towns prefixing the names 'yokooji shimomisu' and 'yokooji misu')through the following changes.
(established in 1962)senryomatsu-cho
(abolished in 1962)numa
the towns prefixing the name 'yokooji misu' are not gathered in one location,but scattered like detached lands.
mukaijima village,kii county was integrated into kyoto city and became a part of fushimi ward in 1931.
mukaijima village included three towns,i.e.,shimono-cho,nakano-cho and hashizume-cho and two oaza,i.e.,mukaijima and yoshijimashinden.
out of these,towns of shimono-cho,nakano-cho and hashizume-cho formed a district which had been integrated into mukaijima village from machigumi of fushimi at the time of the enforcement of the municipal government act in 1889 and renamed as mukaijima shimono-cho,mukaijima nakano-cho and mukaijima hashizume-cho in 1931.
oaza mukaijima was reorganized into 17 towns prefixing the name 'mukaijima' in 1931.
oaza yoshijimashinden was reorganized into 14 towns,i.e.,10 towns prefixing the name 'mukaijima,' three towns prefixing the name 'yoshijima' and minami shinchi.
among the towns prefixing the name 'mukaijima,' the 10 towns,i.e.,higashi jouke,nishi jouke,kanbayashi-cho,tsuda-cho,ogawara,daikoku,kamigotanda,shimogotanda,yanagijima and matabe belonged to oaza yoshijimashinden.
as above,the number of town names prefixing 'mukaijima' was 30 as of 1931 and became 33 through the following changes.
(established in 1955)yotsuyaike,shinkanbayashi,shinogawara,nihonyanagi,kokubo,shinden
(abolished in 1955)furukawa-cho
(renamed in 1968)mukaijima yogoro-cho＝>momoyama yogoro-cho,mukaijima oshima-cho＝>momoyama minami oshima-cho
the towns prefixing the name 'yoshijima' separately exist in two locations,i.e.,the area around keihan electric railway chushojima station and the area around kyoto race course.
noso village,kii county was integrated into kyoto city and became a part of fushimi ward in 1931.
noso village included two oaza,i.e.,noso-cho and noso-mura.
out of these,noso-cho was originally one of the six towns near the yodo-jo castle;it became oaza of noso village at the time of the enforcement of the municipal government act in 1889 and then became noso-cho,fushimi ward in 1931.
oaza noso-mura was reorganized into 11 towns prefixing the name 'noso' in 1931.
the former koga village,hatsukashi village,yodo town
koga village,otokuni county was integrated into kyoto city and became a part of fushimi ward in 1950.
koga village did not include any oaza and the village area was reorganized into six towns prefixing the name 'koga.'
hatsukashi village,otokuni county was integrated into kyoto city and became a part of fushimi ward in 1950.
hatsukashi village included four oaza,i.e.,hishikawa,furukawa,shimizu and kamogawa,which were reorganized into four towns prefixing the name of 'hatsukashi,' thus inheriting the names of the former oaza.
yodo town,kuse county was integrated into fushimi ward,kyoto city and reorganized into 12 towns prefixing the name 'yodo' in 1957.
the area of yodo town,kuse county included the following one town and two villages at the time of the enforcement of the municipal government act in 1889.
yodo town,kuse county(there were three oaza,i.e.,ikegami,shimozu and shincho.)
mizu village,tsuzuki county(there were three oaza,i.e.,mizu,saime and namazu.)
yodo village,otokuni county(there were three oaza,i.e.,hizume,mizutare and oshimozu.)
out of these,the former yodo town was established in 1889 by merger of ikegami town,shimozu town and shincho town in the former yodo-jo castle town.
mizu village and yodo village were integrated into then yodo town in 1935 and in 1936,respectively.
since oaza mizutare and oaza oshimozu of yodo village had belonged to kii county until 1889,each of the four counties,i.e.,kuse,tsuzuki,otokuni and kii was partially included in the district of these one town and two villages.
yodo town after the merger of one town and two villages was integrated into kyoto city in 1957 as mentioned above.
at that time,oaza ikegami was divided into yodo ikegami-cho and yodo hon-machi,and oaza shin-machi into yodoshin-machi,yodokizu-cho and yodokawazura-cho,and the remaining seven oaza were reorganized into seven towns prefixing the name 'yodo,' thus inheriting the names of the former oaza.
as above,the number of town names in the former fushimi city area is 142 that in the other area is 500,which make the total of 642(as of 2009).
remarks
the official town names of fushimi ward vary depending on the materials referred to.
difference in the town names among the following materials is described here.
"kadokawa nihon chimei daijiten no.26 kyoto-fu" ('kadokawa' for short)
municipal ordinance of jurisdiction districts in kyoto city(kyoto city ordinance no.7,april 1,1949)('jurisdiction district ordinance' for short)
election districts(fushimi ward)for elections to be conducted under the public offices election act(announcement of the election committee of fushimi ward no.7,september 1,1952)('announcement of the election committee' for short)
meanwhile,the list of town names and the number of towns in this explanation are on the basis of "kadokawa nihon chimei daijiten" for convenience' sake to avoid confusion.
mt.inari government-owned land:
this is a place name for mt.inari and the surrounding area to the east of fushimi inari taisha shrine.
it is also called 'fukakusa inariyama government-owned land.'
this town name is not seen in 'jurisdiction district ordinance,' but seen as a town which belongs to the first election district in 'announcement of the election committee.'
according to 'kadokawa,' 'mt.inari government-owned land' is a current official place name although its establishment year is unknown.
this district has also been called 'fukakusa inariyama-cho,' and 'mt.inari government-owned land' and 'fukakusa inariyama-cho' are separately listed on the postal code list.
in the 'population based on basic resident register' officially announced by kyoto city,general planning bureau,informatization promotion office, 'mt.inari government-owned land' and 'fukakusa inariyama-cho' are listed separately.
fukakusa karame-cho,fukakusa hattanda-cho,fukakusa komori-cho,fukakusa matsumoto-cho,fukakusa ryo-machi:
these five towns are listed in 'jurisdiction district ordinance,' but 'kadokawa' regards them as the names of abolished towns.
these five town names are not seen in 'announcement of the election committee.'
according to 'kadokawa,' these five towns were abolished in 1949 and are a part of the current 1-chome to 8-chome,fukakusa nishiura-cho.
kojozan,momoyama-cho,maruyama,momoyama-cho,ninomaru,momoyama-cho,jibushomaru,momoyama-cho:
the whole area of these four towns is located within fushimi-no-momoyama-no-misasagi(imperial mausoleum of emperor meiji)and uninhabited.
according to 'kadokawa,' these town names are current official place names;they are listed in 'jurisdiction district ordinance' but not in 'announcement of the election committee.'
meanwhile,the address of archives and mausolea department,the imperial household agency is at kojozan,momoyama-cho.
daigo takada,daigo miyanoshita:
these two towns are seen on the postal code list,but 'kadokawa' regards them as names of towns abolished in 1966.
these town names are not seen in 'jurisdiction district ordinance' and 'announcement of the election committee.'
yokoojinuma:
this town name is seen on the postal code list,but not in 'jurisdiction district ordinance,' and 'kadokawa' regards it as the name of a town abolished in 1962.
however,it is listed in 'announcement of the election committee.'
ogurisu miyayama:
ogurisu miyayama elementary school address
while this town name is listed on the postal code list,it is not referred to even as the former town name in 'kadokawa,' and not listed in 'jurisdiction district ordinance' and 'announcement of the election committee.'
katagishi,momoyama-cho:
this town is listed in any of 'kadokawa,' 'jurisdiction district ordinance' and 'announcement of the election committee,' but is not seen on maps.
according to 'kadokawa,' it is an uninhabited town located on hilly land.
daigo minamidani:
this town is listed in any of 'kadokawa,' 'jurisdiction district ordinance' and 'announcement of the election committee,' but is not seen on maps.
according to 'kadokawa,' it is an uninhabited town located in the mountain region.
