otagi no kori(otagi-gun)(otagi district)
otagi no kori(otagi-gun)was a district that existed in yamashiro province,kyoto prefecture.
part of its district became heian-kyo(the ancient capital of japan in current kyoto)along with kado district,which was its neighbor from ancient times,and is currently a main part of kita ward(kyoto city)and sakyo ward of kyoto city.
history
three villages(a part of later hanase village and current hanase area,sakyo ward,kyoto city)of ofuse,yamasu,bessho villages from kuwata district,tanba province became a part of the area in 1645.
april 10,1879:following the gun-ku-cho-son henseiho(act for the alignment of local government system),otagi district public hall was established.
april 1,1889:following the town and village act,seventeen villages were formed within otagi district
(17 villages).
january 29,1891:noguchi village became separated from takagamine village
(18 villages).
april 1,1918:a part of shirakawa,tanaka,shimogamo,kuramaguchi,noguchi,kamigamo and omiya villages were incorporated into kamigyo ward,kyoto city
(13 villages).
april 1,1931:(eight villages)
kamigamo,omiya and takagamine villages were incorporated into kamigyo ward,kyoto city.
shugakuin ad matsugasaki villages were incorporated into sakyo ward,kyoto city.
july 1,1942:northern yamashiro district office was established to give the jurisdiction over otagi,kadono,and otokuni districts.
april 1,1949:
kumogahata village became a part of kamigyo ward,kyoto city.
iwakura,yase,ohara,shizuichino,kurama,hanase,and kuta villages were incorporated into sakyo ward,kyoto city.
otagi district was abolished on the same day.
go(home village)within the district seen in "wamyo ruijusho" (dictionary of japanese names).
those within the parenthesis is pronounced in the way of kun(the japanese pronunciation of chinese character).
tatekura-go(多天久良)
kurusuno-go(久留須乃)
kami-awata-go(阿波多)
ono-go
shimo-awata-go
ono-go(乎乃)
nishigori-go(尓之古利)
yasaka-go(也佐加)
toribe-go(止利倍)
otagi-go(於多木)
izumo-go(adakae)(以都毛)(在上下)
kamo-go
