miyazu city
miyazu city is a city in kyoto prefecture.
the city has amanohashidate,one of "the three most scenic spots of japan," and is called the kaien-toshi,or oceanfront city,bordering the sea of japan.
population
geography
miyazu bay
aso-kai(inland sea)
neighboring municipalities
to the north:kyotango city and ine-cho,yosa-gun
to the south:maizuru city and fukuchiyama city
to the west:yosano-cho,yosa-gun
history
1600:as a reward for his distinguished service in the battle of sekigahara,takatomo kyogoku was awarded the entire tango province by ieyasu tokugawa,and accordingly,the tango domain was established.
subsequently,the tango domain was divided into three regions by the three sons of takatomo kyogoku,and the three domains of tango,miyazu,maizuru,and mineyama,were established.
the kyogoku family forfeited all property as well as their status as warrior class,and instead,the honjo family became the domain lord.
june 1,1954:miyazu-cho,kunda-mura,yoshizu-mura,fuchu-mura,hioki-mura,seya-mura,yoro-mura,and higatani-mura in yosa-gun were merged to implement the shisei(grant of city status).
september 20,1956:miyazu city absorbed yura-mura,kasa-gun.
industries
companies in the city
the central office of the sales department(branch code:001)at the kyoto hokuto shinkin bank(the third oldest credit union in existence)
headquarters of fukuya co.,ltd.(kyoto prefecture)
kyoto bank(kyogin)miyazu branch(descended from tanwa bank which was established through the merger of the four banks,ryotan bank,miyazu bank,tango industrial and commercial bank,and tango industry bank)
nippon yakin kogyo co.,ltd.
headquarters of kaneshita construction co.,ltd.
gunze ltd.(in the land registry,its headquarters are located in ayabe city.)
sister and associated cities
international
nelson(new zealand)
delray beach(florida,the united states of america)
qinhuangdao city(hebei province,china)
transportation
railroads
the miyazu station(the kitakinki tango railway miyazu line and the kitakinki tango railway miyafuku line)is the main train station in the city,but,for tourism,the amanohashidate station(the kitakinki tango railway miyazu line)is the center.
other than the two stations mentioned previously,miyazu city has the miyamura station,the kita station and the karakawa station on the miyafuku line,together with the iwataki-guchi station,the kunda station and the tango yura station on the miyazu line.
buses
tango kairiku kotsu co.,ltd.(tankai bus,headquartered in yosano-cho,kyoto prefecture)
roads
ordinary toll road
ayabe-miyazu road:miyazu-amanohashidate interchange
scenic sites,historic sites,tourist spots,festivals and events
major historic sites
amanohashidate
isoshimizu(selected 100 exquisite and well-conserved waters)
miyazu-jo castle
kanabiki-no-taki waterfall(japan's top 100 waterfalls)
catholic miyazu parish(a church with tatami-mat flooring,the second oldest wooden church in existence and the oldest in use in japan)
former mikamis' house(important cultural property in japan,a family of wealthy merchant making a living from cargo ship,and its garden 'mikami garden' being designated as a scenic site by the government)
takigami park(cherry blossom viewing spot)
kono shrine(ichi-no-miya shrine,or first shrine,of tango province)
nariai-ji temple
chion-ji temple(miyazu city)
sanno-miya hiyoshi-jinja shrine(famous for the shinto ritual of 'akachan-dohyo-iri,' or baby's first entry into sumo ring for the good health)
leisure
ama no hashidate view land
kasamatsu park
amanohashidate beach
tango-yura beach
tango watch-kan(aquarium)
tourism
festivals
miyazu festival
tenkoro ship race
miyazu-toro-nagashi-hanabi-taikai(miyazu fireworks)
big toro(hanging lantern)as 'ship of souls' are fired at miyazu port,and then,small toro are sent chasing the big toro.
the scene of so many toro's chasing the big toro is truly beautiful to behold.
the ships of souls are shipped by families who lost a family member within a year.
zip code
the zip code changed in 2007.
miyazu post office:626-00 and 629-22 including the area of former iwataki-cho,i.e.,629-22,in yosano-cho,yoza-gun
iwagahana post office:626-02
