asuka-mura(asuka village)
asuka-mura is a village located in the center of nara prefecture.
since it is a birthplace of the centralized state under the ritsuryo system,a lot of palaces and historical sites of the asuka period were excavated and the village is introuced as 'a mental hometown to the japanese.'
the entire village is the only municipality supported by 'koto hozon ho' (the ancient capitals preservation law).
in addition,the plan to register the village on the world heritage list is taking shape.
geography
rivers:asuka-gawa river
the village is in a small basin surrounded by hills and mountains.
adjacent municipalities
kashihara city,sakurai city,takatori-cho,takaichi county,yoshino-cho,yoshino county
population
statistical investigation by nara prefecture
6,114 people as of january 1,2008.
ppopulation growth rate(from 2002 to 2007):-8.1%
history
the ancient times
refer to the asuka period.
the middle ages
the modern age
1856:three villages of sakaai,takaichi and asuka in the former takaichi county were merged into 'asuka-mura.'
1972:colored wall paintings were discovered in takamatsuzuka-kofun tumulus.
aska law
keizo mii,a practitioner of acupuncture and moxibustion,who was patronized by konosuke matsushita,insisted on the preservation of the remains of asuka-mura;matsushita asked eisaku sato,then prime minister to help the preservation,and the law to preserve the remains was established.
aside from this,there were some the preservation movements,one of which was led by mutsuko miki.
in may,1980, 'special measures law concerning preservation of historical natural features and maintenance of living environment in asuka village(asuka law),' or asuka village special measures law in abbriviation,was issued and it has two pillows;one is to preserve the entire village as a historical landscape preserved district.
except some areas in front of the station,almost all the areas in asuka-mura are scenic areas and strict restrictions are imposed on construction.
the second pillow aims the stabilization of the villagers' lives.
the entire village as a historical landscape preserved district
the first district includes ishibutai-kofun tumulus,takamatsuzuka-kofun tumulus,oka-dera temple,the supposed site of asuka itabuki no miya palace(asukakyo site)and amakashi no oka hill.
strict restrictions are imposed on changing the current conditions.
the second district includes the areas except the first district,where changing the current conditions markedly is not restricted while subtle changes are allowed.
the development plan and fund for asuka-mura
the development plan aims to preserve and maitain the historical landscape of asuka-mura and,at the same time,to develop and adjust streets,sewers,parks,educational facilities and agricultural environment.
the village's population has been decreasing because of these strict regulations,which is unavoidable in order to preserve historical sites and scenery.
institutions
asuka historical museum of nara national research institute for cultural properties(okuyama)
nara prefecture complex of manyo culture(asuka)
inukai manyo memorial hall
exhibition room of archaeological cultural asset
museum of history and folklore
asuka historical national government park hall
the takamatsuzuka mural hall
asuka indigo-dyed fabric hall
economy
industry
sightseeing,agriculture
sister cities/affiliate cities
overseas
fuyo district(sud chungcheong of the republic of korea)
the affiliation of sister cities on november 28,1972
traffic
railway
the centeral city:asuka station(kintetsu railway,kintetsu yoshino line)
in travelling by bus for sightseeing,it is more convenient to go to kashiharajingu-mae station(kintetsu railway,kintetsu minamiosaka line/kintetsu kashihara line),two stations to the north,where the frequency of buses is better.
there are some bus services from sakurai station(nara prefecture)(kintetsu osaka line/jr sakurai line).
roads
national routes
the national route that runs through the village:route 169
prefectural roads
the prefectural roads that run through the village:nara prefectural road 15,sakurai-asuka-yoshino line,nara prefectural road 155,tonomine mise line
famous sites,historic scenes,sightseeing spots,rites festivals and events
takamatsuzuka-kofun tumulus
the takamatsuzuka mural hall
asuka-dera temple
ishibutai-kofun tumulus
kitora-kofun tumulus
oni no manaita/oni no setchin(devil's cutting board and devil's privy)
tachibana-dera temple
oka-dera temple(ryugai-ji temple,the seventh temple of 33 saigoku kannon pilgrimage)
asukaniimasu-jinja shrine
mise maruyama-kofun tumulus
asukakyo site
emperor kinmei mausoleum
"sakafune-ishi" (sake-vat rock)
"kameishi" (tortoise stone)
nara prefecture complex of manyo culture
"saruishi" (monkey stone)
amakashi no oka hill
askuka historical national government park
