kamo-cho(kyoto prefecture)
kamo-cho was a town located in soraku-gun,kyoto prefecture.
on march 12,2007 kamo-cho was merged with yamashiro-cho(kyoto prefecture)and kizu-cho,thereby forming kizugawa city.
as the capital(kuni-kyo)was located around this area for a period of time in the nara period,the area has many historical sites and cultural assets.
the first currency in circulation in japan, 'wado-kaichin silver coins,' was made in this area.
the town adopted a motto 'town rich in culture and is comfortable to live.'
local products are wallpaper,fusuma door,tea,and shiitake mushrooms.
geography
river
kizu-gawa river(kyoto prefecture)
mountain
mt.kita(elevation:476.5 m)
history
history
729:the gansen-ji temple was built by the order of the emperor shomu.
735:the kaijusen-ji temple was built by the order of the emperor shomu.
740:the emperor shomu relocated the capital to kuni-kyo.
744:the capital was relocated to naniwanomiya palace and the yamashiro provincial monastery was built at the site of kuni-kyo.
1047:the joruri-ji temple was built.
april 1,1889:sato-mura,takada-mura,hokkejino-mura,ono-mura,kannonji-mura,minami-mura,zezu-mura,unami-mura,and kita-mura of soraku-gun were merged to form kamo-mura.
february 11,1928:the town organization took effect.
april 1,1951:tono-mura and mikanohara-mura of soraku-gun were incorporated into kamo-mura.
march 12,2007:three towns of yamashiro,kizu,and kamo were merged to form kizugawa city.
administration
mayor:hisashi nanba(inaugurated in may,2003)
education
cultural facility
kamo-cho cultural center(ajisai hall)
transportation
adjacent to the prefectural government of nara prefecture,nara city,kamo-cho has been greatly affected.
railroads
central station:kamo station on the kansai main line,operated by the west japan railway company(jr west)
roads
scenic sites,historic sites,tourist spots,festivals and events
scenic sites,historic sites
kaijusen-ji temple
joruri-ji temple
gansen-ji temple
jonen-ji temple
yamashiro provincial monastery site(kuni-kyo site)
goryo-jinja shrine(kamo-cho)
zezu site
hakusan-jinja shrine
stone buddhist image in too
festivals
rokusai nenbutsu(held at the kaijusen-ji temple in august)
okage odori dance(held at the hakusan-jinja shrine on october 16)
shishimai(lion dance),dengaku dance,sumo(japanese-style wrestling)(held in zezu in october)
others
the zip codes are as follows.
changes were made on october 10,2006.
yamashiro kizu post office(kizugawa city(formerly kizu-cho)):619-02xx,619-11xx
