soni plateau
soni plateau is located in oaza taroji,soni-mura,uda county,nara prefecture.
this plateau is within the class 1 special district of muro akame aoyama quasi-national park.
summary
a mountain on the soni plateau is called mt.kame and is 849 meters in height.
japanese pampas grass blooms in autumn.
after the dead grass is burnt off the hill in spring,stunning scenery of the plateau covered with black japanese pampas grass can be found.
the plateau attracts many hikers mainly from kansai area.
transportation
by bus
mie kotsu co.,ltd.provides bus service from nabari station to soni plateau,on saturdays and holidays from april 1 to november 30 and on weekdays from september 25 to november 30.
however,visitors have to walk about one kilometer from the bus stop to the plateau.
nara kotsu bus lines co.,ltd.also operates special bus service from haibara station,on sundays and national holidays from october 15 to 29.
the plateau is also accessible by a 60-minute walk from taroji bus stop.
in this case,year-round bus service is available.
in addition,the plateau can be accessed by bus leaving nabari station for mitsue village.
by car
from osaka
soni plateau can be accessed by exiting the meihan national route at the hari interchange,driving south on national route 369 to enter the village of soni,and then taking mie and nara prefectural road no.81 nabari soni route.
tsugasaka bypass opened on august 4,2006.
soni bypass opened on december 2,2004.
haibara bypass opened on june 1,2004,and these newly opened bypasses allow better access from osaka and surrounding areas than several years ago.
from nagoya
soni plateau can be accessed by exiting the meihan national route at the ueno interchange,passing through iga and nabari cities,and then taking mie and nara prefectural road no.81 nabari soni route.
careful attention is required when driving between nabari and soni on no.81 nabari soni route,because the road is narrow.
nearby spots
national soni youth outdoor learning center
soni plateau farm garden
soni plateau "okame-no-yu" hot spring
mitsue plateau meadow
