kizu-cho
kizu-cho is the name of the town which used to exist in soraku-gun,kyoto prefecture.
on march 12,2007,kizu-cho was consolidated with yamashiro-cho(kyoto prefecture)and kamo-cho(kyoto prefecture)into kizugawa city.
at present,kizu-cho no longer exists.
geography
the location where kizu-cho formerly existed is the southern edge of kyoto prefecture.
the kizu-gawa river(kyoto prefecture)runs through here,so in the old days this place prospered as a port for lumber transit;the town name "kizu" comes from the lumber(in japanese, "ki")and the port(in japanese, "zu" or "tsu").
even before the consolidation with two other towns,the population growth here was remarkable;a report from the national census in 2005 says the growth rate ranked sixth out of all towns and villages in japan(at that time),and the population exceeded 40,000 on march 10,2006.
the former kizu-cho area constitutes a part of kansai science city(gakken toshi),so it has a district where research facilities stand side by side,but it also has many districts where rows of old houses and rich nature are still left intact.
the japanese persimmon is the specialty here.
kizu-cho once held the watchword, 'the town of nature and tradition which are both harmonized with the newly created culture,and which you can contact with.'
history
april 1,1889:with the town-village administrative system put into effect,kizu-mura was created in soraku-gun.
november 25,1893:with the town administrative system put into effect,kizu-mura became kizu-cho.
april 1,1951:saganaka-mura in soraku-gun was incorporated into kizu-cho.
march 12,2007:kizu-cho,kamo-cho and yamashiro-cho,which had all belonged to soraku-gun until then,were consolidated into kizugawa city.
administration
mayor-noriko kawai(in office from september 19,2004)
major public facilities
kizu summary court-located at 110,koaza minamigaito,oaza kizu,kizu-cho,soraku-gun,kyoto prefecture
kizu regional government offices(the legal affairs bureau kizu branch office,the kizu local public prosecutor's office and the public employment security kizu office)-located at 36-6,koaza kamido,oaza kizu,kizu-cho,soraku-gun
kizu police station
economy
there is aeon takanohara shopping center around kintetsu takanohara station which is located in the western part of the former kizu-cho.
industry
the area is home not only to private research facilities,such as rohto research village kyoto,omron corporation keihanna technology innovation center and sekisui house co.,ltd.comprehensive housing r&d institute,but also national research facilities,such as the kids' science museum of photons operated by kansai photon science institute which belongs to japan atomic energy agency,and advanced telecommunications research institute international(atr).
sister and associated cities
domestic
tango-cho,takeno-gun,kyoto prefecture(the present kyotango city)(affiliated as a friendship city)
education
transportation
railroads
west japan railway company
kizu station(kyoto prefecture)-kansai main line-nara line-katamachi line(gakkentoshi line)
nishi-kizu station-katamachi line(gakkentoshi line)
kizu station is a transportation hub,with the eastern entrance of the station under construction in schedule with the start of operations on the second floor of the station building in spring of 2007.
kinki nippon railway co.,ltd.
kizugawadai station-kintetsu kyoto line
yamadagawa station-kintetsu kyoto line
roads
keinawa expressway
kizu interchange(kyoto prefecture)
national route 24
national route 163
nara kamo line of nara and kyoto prefectural route 44
tenri kamo kizu line of nara and kyoto prefectural route 47
scenic sites,historic sites,tourist spots,festivals and events
the grave of izumi shikibu
the grave of taira no shigehira
recreations
kizu-gawa river(kyoto prefecture)
festivals
kizu sansha matsuri festival:its registered name as the designated cultural asset of kizu-cho(the intangible folk custom)is "kizu futon daikodai matsuri festival."
in principle the festival is held on the fourth saturday and sunday of october every year.
but if october 20 and 21 fall on saturday and sunday,the festival is held as an exception on these dates.
six "futon daiko" (peculiar bass drums)are carried into the precincts of goryo-jinja shrine,okadakuni-jinja shrine,and tanaka-jinja shrine by men of keishin-gumi,yashiro-cho,kodera-cho,nishi-cho,giyu-kai,or haishin-dan.
others
zip code is as follows.
yamashiro kizu post office:619-02xx,619-11xx
