ukawa-onsen hot spring
ukawa-onsen hot spring is located in tango-cho,kyotango city,kyoto prefecture.
access
by train:get off at mineyama station on the kitakinki tango railway,transfer to the tango kairiku kotsu bus,get off at kyoso and walk for five minutes.
by car:drive along prefectural route 9 from the miyazu-amanohashidate interchange of kyoto longitudinal expressway(an expressway running through kyoto prefecture in the north-south direction)for two kilometers to the north,turn to the left,drive along national route 176 for 4.5 km to the west,turn to the right in front of iwatakiguchi station,then drive further along national route 178 for thirty-five km to the north and turn to the left at the kyuso crossing.
a parking lot is provided.
hot spring water quality
simple alkaline hot spring(expansive high-temperature alkaline hot spring)
effects
the hot spring is said to be effective for nerve pain,muscle pain,recovery from fatigue,chronic illness related to the digestive tract,shoulder aches in the elderly,etc
*the effects are not guaranteed for everyone.
the hot spring site
ukawa onsen,yoshino no sato' is the only facility for overnight and daytrip stays.
it is located in a quiet environment on a hill overlooking the sea.
you can enjoy a panoramic view of the japan sea from an open-air bathtub on the hill,and in particular,the sunset is known as being particularly beautiful.
the facility was the first hot spring facility in tango-cho as well.
bathing facilities for customers visiting the hot spring for only the day are elaborate;for example,the indoor baths are made of natural wood with the japan sea viewable,and bamboo forests can be seen from the outdoor baths.
two baths,known as 'ryugu' (assuming a hot spring in the sea)and 'kaguya' (assuming a hot spring in the mountain)are provided,with use switched daily for male or female customers,but 'ryugu' is particularly popular,because it allows a breathlessly beautiful sunset.
after paying the entrance fee to the bath facility,you may enjoy the hot spring any number of times upon presenting the fare receipt while in the facility.
