nagaokakyo city
nagaokakyo city is a city located in the southwest of kyoto prefecture.
summary
nagaokakyo city was named after nagaoka-kyo(imperial capital),and the part of the city corresponds to the southern part of nagaoka-kyo,
the city as well as neighboring muko city and oyamazaki-cho are famous for producing bamboo shoots.
it also produces a flower vegetable(edible oilseed rape).
the city belonged to otokuni-gun before the shisei(grant of city status)was implemented,and thus,an old temple,otokuni-dera temple is located in the city.
nagaokakyo city can be divided into three main areas:the east,the middle,and the west of nagaokakyo city.
in the east of nagaokakyo city around nagaokakyo station of west japan railway,high-tech companies such as murata manufacturing co.,ltd.,panasonic corporation(formerly matsushita electric industrial co.,ltd.),and mitsubishi electric corporation have opened their offices and/or factories,and also nippon yusoki co.,ltd.,a famous forklift manufacturer,is located along the railroad.
suntory also built kyoto brewery in the city near the border with oyamazaki-cho,and,using the water from springs flowing from the nishiyama mountain range,kyoto brewery produces products mainly for western japan.
there was a time when friction arose between suntory and residents due to its heavy use of groundwater;currently,suntory has tried to make amends,for example,inviting residents to the beer festival held by the company in fall.
the middle of nagaokakyo city around nagaoka tenjin station of hankyu corporation is comprised of commercial and residential districts,and is the center of the city.
large grocery stores gathered around this area,but after 2000,the west exit of jr nagaokakyo station has been redeveloped and stores have opened in the area,as well.
the west of nagaokakyo city to the westward of the oyamazaki oe line(tanba kaido road)of the kyoto prefectural route 10 is an area with a wealth of nature,consisting mainly of the hillside area in nishiyama,and where famous shrines and temples are scattered around as mentioned below.
however,a part of the area has been logged and developed for housing.
nagaokakyo city does not receive much attention because one of the most popular tourist destinations in japan,kyoto city,is located nearby,but is still a good location.
bamboo groves are especially beautiful;the setting for "taketori monogatari" (the tale of the bamboo cutter)is said to have modeled either nagaokakyo city or yawata city,kyoto prefecture.
kirishima azalea by the hachijogaike pond at the nagaoka-tenmangu shrine,tree peonies at the otokuni-dera temple,hydrangeas at the yokoku-ji temple,and autumn leaf color at the komyo-ji temple(nagaokakyo city)are all known for their beauty,as well.
the komyo-ji temple is often used for location shooting for movies and tv dramas.
nagaokakyo city holds a variety of events and festivals,from the garasha(gratia)matsuri festival in fall to the event at the bamboo grove featuring kaguya-hime(princess kaguya),the firefly viewing gathering,the tenjin matsuri festival,the ajisai(hydrangea)matsuri festival,and the botan(tree peony)matsuri festival.
putting aside the city's intention to attract visitors from all over the country,these seem to be successful events and festivals of family recreation for the residents.
incidentally,the firefly viewing gathering is often held before the season for fireflies.
history
ancient times
the otokuni-dera temple was built.
imperial capital was transferred to nagaoka-kyo.
the nagaoka-tenmangu shrine was built.
medieval period
the area was owned by the kaiin-ji temple(presently dilapidated).
the area was owned by the hosokawa family.
tama hosokawa(later garasha,or gratia)settled in shoryuji-jo castle.
modern times
august 1,1931:kotari station(the present-day nagaokakyo station)on the tokaido main line opened.
october 1,1949:three villages of shinkotari-mura,kaiinji-mura and otokuni-mura were combined to form nagaoka-cho.
october 1,1972:nagaoka-cho became nagaokakyo city by implementing the shisei(grant of city status).
note that to avoid confusion with nagaoka city,niigata prefecture,the city was named after nagaoka-kyo,which had included the area of nagaoka-cho in its territory.
population
politics and government
mayor:yutaka oda(as of 2003)
sister and associated cities
domestic
izunagaoka-cho,tagata-gun,shizuoka prefecture(the present-day izunokuni city)
nagaokakyo city established a sister-city relationship with izunagaoka-cho in november,1984.
international
arlington,massachusetts,usa
nagaokakyo city established a sister-city relationship with arlington in 1984.
ningbo,zhejiang province,china
nagaokakyo city established a friendship city relationship with ningbo in 1983.
transportation
railroads
tokaido shinkansen:no stations in the city
jr kyoto line:nagaokakyo station
hankyu kyoto main line:nagaoka tenjin station
buses
hankyu bus co.,ltd.
the hankyu bus has routes within the city and to neighboring towns and cities.
the hankyu bus uses the area in front of jr nagaokakyo station as a bus terminal because hankyu nagaokatenjin station has little space in front.
kyoto city bus
buses(south line no.2 and special south line no.2)arrive at and leave the east exit of jr nagaokakyo station from and for the west exit of kintetsu takeda station.
nagaokakyo happy bus
the nagaokakyo happy bus is a community bus run by nagaokakyo city.
it has two lines:the north and south lines.
operation of the bus is entrusted to hankyu bus co.,ltd.
roads
expressway
meishin expressway:there are no interchanges in the city,and the closest one is the oyamazaki interchange.
scenic sites,historic sites,tourist spots,festivals and events
mausoleum of emperor tsuchimikado
komyo-ji temple(nagaokakyo city):autumn leaf color
yokoku-ji temple(yanagidani kannon):autumn leaf color
otokuni-dera temple:tree peonies
nagaoka-tenmangu shrine:plums,kirishima azalea,and autumn leaf color
shoryujijo park
postal service
mukomachi post office in adjacent muko city is in charge of collection and delivery in the entire area of nagaokakyo city.
