fushimi ward
fushimi ward is one of the eleven wards that constitute kyoto city.
it is the most popular residential area in kyoto city,with the largest population of all the eleven administrative wards.
it is not only a commercial center that carries on the traditions of the castle town of fushimi-jo castle,but also a commuter town for central kyoto and osaka.
history
532:emperor kinmei met hata no otsuchi,who had control over yamashiro province,in fukakusa-no-sato ki-no-kori and appointed him as his right-hand man.
711:hata no irogu is said to have founded fukakusa inari-jinja shrine.
861:fujiwara no yoshifusa of the northern house of the fujiwara clan founded jogan-ji temple.
fukakusa is said to have been a territory of the fujiwara clan.
874:shobo founded a temple in kami-daigo,which was given the name of daigo-ji temple.
952:the five-story pagoda of daigo-ji temple was built.
tachibana no toshitsuna built fushimi sanso mountain villa between 1069 and 1074.
1186:cloistered emperor goshirakawa moved to fushimi-dono gosho imperial palace.
1221:the retired emperor gotoba raised an army at jonan-ji temple in fushimi under the pretext of holding a horseback archery game to rebel the shogunate.
1362 to 1368:emperor suko established the fushiminomiya family,who inherited fushimi sanso mountain villa for generations from imperial prince fushiminomiya yoshihito.
1426:yata-za of tanba sarugaku(form of theater becoming the basis for noh)assumed the post of gakuto-shiki(right to play sarugaku)of fushimi gokogu-jinja shrine.
1441:tokusei uprising occurred in fushimi and other villages around kyoto which marched on rakuchu(inside the capital kyoto)demanding the cancellation of debt.
1594:hideyoshi toyotomi built the foundation of the castle town for fushimi-jo castle through urban development and zoning(the distinct features of the castle town can be found today in the place names and hook-shaped roads that still remain in the ward).
1598:hideyoshi toyotomi held a cherry blossom viewing party in daigo.
1600:a fierce battle occurred in the fushimi-jo castle,which triggered the battle of sekigahara.
1601:a silver mint(historical)was established in the castle town of fushimi.
1603:ieyasu tokugawa was appointed taishogun(barbarian-quelling generalissimo)in the fushimi-jo castle.
1607:sadakatsu matsudaira became a chamberlain,castle keeper.
1608:the silver mint was moved to kyoto.
1613:the takase-gawa river(kyoto prefecture)opened between kyoto nijo and fushimi.
1617:the post of the chamberlain of fushimi-jo castle was abolished.
1624:fushimi-jo castle was closed.
bugyo,a magistrate of shogunate administrators became the ruler of fushimi.
1625:sadatsuna matsudaira became the domain head of the yodo clan.
1694:a drama or show first played in the annual festival of gokonomiya jinja shrine.
1698:tatebe takuminokami,fushimi city magistrate permitted the building of 200 fushimi-bune ships.
1736:coins started to be made in zeniza,or a mint in fushimi sashimono-cho.
1785:fushimi sodo trouble occurred.
1786:the population of fushimi-cho exceeded forty thousand.
1862:terada-ya incident occurred.
1864:soldiers led by the choshu clan entered fushimi.(kinmon no hen,kinmon rebellion)
1867:the ruling by bugyo came to an end.
1868:the fushimi-jo castle became a battlefield for the battle of toba-fushimi.
february 1,1895:kyoto electric railway--japan's first commercial electric railway--opened between a square in front of kyoto station(shichijo)and fushimi-shimoaburakake.
(it became kyoto city trams fushimi line a later year and was out of service in 1970.)
july 18,1905:the sixteenth army division of the now-defunct imperial japanese army was established in fukakusa.
may 1,1929:fushimi-machi,kii-gun was reorganized as a municipality to become fushimi city(the city was reorganized on the premise of merging into kyoto city.)
april 1,1931:fushimi ward was founded through a merger of a city,a town,and seven villages--fushimi city,fukakusa-cho,shimotoba-mura,yokooji-mura,noso-mura,horiuchi-mura,mukaijima-mura,takeda-mura of kii-gun,and daigo-mura of uji-gun--into kyoto city.
december 1,1950:hazukashi-mura and koga-mura of otokuni-gun were merged.
april 1,1957:yodo-cho,kuse-gun was merged.
1967:a city plan project was adopted to close the fushimi port.
its history as a port came to an end along with the name of fushimi port.
ward office
fushimi ward office
612-8511
681 higashikumi-cho,fushimi ward,kyoto city
tel:075-611-1101(the main switchboard number)
fukakusa branch
612-0861
93-1 fukakusa-mukaihata-cho,fushimi ward,kyoto city
tel:075-642-3101(the main switchboard number)
daigo branch
601-1366
28 daigo-okamae-cho,fushimi ward,kyoto city
tel:075-571-0003(the main switchboard number)
competent post office
fushimi post office(612-00,612-08,612-09,612-80,612-81,612-82,612-83,612-84)
fushimi higashi post office(601-13)
kumiyama post office(613-00,613-08,613-09)(town names starting with "yodo")
education
adjacent municipalities
minami ward,kyoto city
higashiyama ward,kyoto city
yamashina ward,kyoto city
uji city
muko city
nagaokakyo city
yawata city
kumiyama-cho,kusegun
oyamazaki-cho,otokuni-gun
otsu city,shiga prefecture
transportation
railroad
kintetsu kyoto line of the kintetsu corporation
(from/to kyoto station)-kamitobaguchi station-takeda station(kyoto prefecture)-fushimi station(kyoto prefecture)-kintetsu-tanbabashi station-momoyamagoryo-mae station-mukaijima station-(from/to yamato-saidaiji station)
keihan main line of the keihan electric railway
(from/to demachiyanagi station)-fushimi-inari station-fukakusa station-fujinomori station-sumizome station-tanbabashi station-fushimi momoyama station-chushojima station-yodo station-(from/to yodoyabashi station)
keihan uji line of the keihan electric railway
chushojima station-kangetsukyo station-momoyama-minamiguchi station-rokujizo station-(from/to keihan uji station)
nara line of west japan railway company(jr west)
(from/to kyoto station)-inari station-jr-fujinomori station-momoyama station-(from/to kizu station(kyoto prefecture))
karasuma line of the kyoto municipal subway
(from/to kokusai kaikan station)-kuinabashi station-takeda station-(extension of service into the kintetsu kyoto line)
tozai line of the kyoto municipal subway
(from/to nijo station)-daigo station(kyoto prefecture)-ishida station-(from/to rokujizo station)
fixed-route buses
kyoto city bus
keihan bus co.,ltd.
keihan uji bus co.,ltd
hankyu bus co.,ltd.
daigo community bus
expressway
meishin expressway
kyoto minami interchange
keiji by-pass
kumiyama yodo interchange(a portion passes fushimi ward)
urban highway
hanshin expressway no.8 kyoto route
fushimi half-interchange-jonangu minami half-interchange-jonangu kita half-interchange
kamogawa nishi half-interchange-kamogawa higashi half-interchange(under construction;scheduled to be opened in march 2011)
industry
agriculture
paddy fields stretches in the western and southern districts.
manufacturing industry
the city is renowned for its traditional breweries of sake,japanese liquor,but manufacturers of advanced electronics and business involved in materials which support this industry can also be found.
pulse plaza(kyoto trade fair center)is located along the abura-koji-dori(also known as shinhorikawa-dori)--it is an important site for public relations activities for informing the public of kyoto's industries and exhibitions are frequently held by a wide variety of industries.
headquarters site of kyocera corporation
list of sake brands of kyoto prefecture
eikun' saito sake brewing co.,ltd
kizakura' kizakura co.,ltd.
gekkeikan' gekkeikan
shochikubai' takara shuzo co.,ltd.
shotoku' shotoku brewery co.,ltd.
tamanohikari' tamanohikari sake brewing co.,ltd.
tsuki no katsura' masuda tokube shoten
tomio' kitagawa honke
momo no shizuku' matsumoto sake brewing co.,ltd.
shinsei' yamamoto honke
yoshimurashuzo co.,ltd.,which is said to be a descendent of yoshimura family--a cultivator of the fushimi-jo castle site--moved its headquarters to shin-onsen-cho,hyogo prefecture in 2000.
commerce
in regions along the keihan line,kintetsu line,and subway,streets are lined with stores and large retailers which create a lively atmosphere.
many traditional retailers are found in regions along the keihan line.
many retail estate agencies that act as intermediates between students and apartment landlords have succeeded due to the large number of students who commute to universities along the railways.
the national route 1 and the shinhorikawa-dori street are lined with large suburban retail stores,restaurants,and amusement centers.
business in the southwestern part of the ward is relatively weak.
due to the lack of efficient public transportation,driving to large shopping centers in surrounding areas has become the norm as a result of well developed road service.
historical sites
fushimi inari taisha shrine
the imperial mausoleum of emperor meiji,fushimi-no-momoyama-no-misasagi
fushimi-jo castle
gokonomiya jinja shrine
terada-ya incident(an inn for ship passengers near the fushimi port,where terada-ya incident occurred)
fushimi port(fushimi-ko park,fushimi minato park)
jra kyoto race course
jonangu
daigo-ji temple(placed on the world heritage list as part of the cultural assets of ancient capital of kyoto)
gekkeikan okura sake museum
kappa country
choken-ji temple
administrative district issues
fushimi ward is the most populated of ordinance-designated cities(excluding tokyo special ward)following kohoku ward,yokohama city and aoba ward,yokohama city(yokohama city).
therefore,the plan of separating the ward has kept coming up and disappearing for some time.
the fushimi ward office has the fukakusa branch,the daigo branch,the kamikawa branch office,and the yodo branch office;however it has been proposed that the fukakusa branch and daigo branch be separated from fushimi ward.
however,the populations of both the fukakusa branch and the daigo branch are less than 100 thousand(still larger than higashiyama ward's)and,additionally,the two areas share a geographical border but have not had strong ties on a community level--these lie behind the fact that the separation plan has not gained momentum.
some consider it more reasonable that the area of the daigo branch be separated from fushimi ward and merged with yamashina ward because the area has far closer ties with yamashina ward than the central part of fushimi ward.
