arashiyama-onsen hot spring
arashiyama-onsen hot spring is a spa situated in arashiyama,ukyo ward,kyoto city,kyoto prefecture.
access
by railway
the hot spring is near from saga-arashiyama station of jr sagano line.
arashiyama station(hankyu)of hankyu railway arashiyama line is also convenient.
arashiyama station on the keifuku electric railroad arashiyama main line is also close.
by car
after getting off the meishin expressway at kyoto-minami interchange,drive about 10 km using national route 1,then national route 9,and the following kyoto prefectural route 29 will bring you to the hot spring.
spring quality
the spring quality of arashiyama hot spring is classified as a simple hot spring(hot spring with a hypotonic low alkaline level).
the fountainhead is at 1-2,kamikawara-cho,arashiyama,nishikyo ward,kyoto city(east side of the kyoto arashiyama koen park office).
its depth is 1200 meters.
81liters of hot spring water per minute(116 tons per day)is welled up.
the temperature of the hot spring is 35.2℃ at its gushing point and 44.1℃ at 1200 meters underground.
the color of the hot spring is light milky white.
effect
this hot spring is effective against various diseases and symptoms such as neuralgia,myalgia,arthralgia,frozen shoulders,bruises,sprains,chronic digestive organs disease,hemorrhoids and sensitivity to cold.
it is also effective for many purposes such as recovering from fatigue and promoting health.
however,there is no guarantee that these effects will work on everyone.
facilities around the hot spring
the surrounding area is one of the best tourist attractions having enough places to visit,such as a famous temple.
there are five hot spring hotels in this region.
history
this place thrived as a noblemen's villa since the heian period.
its history as a hot spring dates back to the taisho period,when a few hot spring hotels including rankyokan existed.
however,it was difficult to say that arashiyama-onsen hot spring was a famous one.
it has become popular since the re-boring of the fountainhead in 2004 which was conducted as a part of a local revitalization campaign.
