nishikyo ward
remarks
nishikyo ward is one of the eleven wards that constitute kyoto city.
the combined area of the part of nishikyo ward to the west of the katsura-gawa river and otokuni-gun(including muko city and nagaokakyo city)is referred to as nishigaoka or nishiyama.
being established at the same time as yamashina ward,nishikyo ward is one of the newest wards.
geography
rivers:katsura-gawa river(yodo-gawa river system)and obata-gawa river
mountains:mt.ponpon(kinki)and mt.matsuo(kyoto prefecture)
history
an immigrant clan of the hata clan settled in the area containing the present-day nishikyo and ukyo wards since ancient times.
it is said that the koryu-ji temple acted almost as if it had been their uji-dera(clan temple),and that the matsuo-taisha shrine held rituals for the clan.
the tomb of the to family(東家),descendants of the hata no kawakatsu,stands in the yamada area in nishikyo ward,almost as if watching over the urban area of kyoto.
the hata clan is believed to have improved the katsura-gawa river around the fifth century,but the river is said to have been flooded repeatedly around the riverside in nishikyo ward.
as administrative districts,kadono-gun and otokuni-gun were each located separately on the plane and on the mountain side.
in the heian period,female traveling merchants called 'katsurame' peddled in rakuchu(central kyoto).
a demon called shuten-doji is said to have lived in oe on the border with tanba province although some believe the oe indicated a different location of oe-cho;according to a legend,shuten-doji was subdued by minamoto no yorimitsu.
additionally,historic temples and shrines such as fujiwara clan's branch shrine,the kasuga-jinja shrine,the yoshimine-dera temple and the katagihara-haiji ato(site of the katagihara dilapidated temple)are located in nishikyo ward.
under the rein of shogun yoshimitsu ashikaga during the muromachi period when the capital was located in kyoto,forces under the direct control of the seii taishogun(literally, "great general who subdues the barbarians"), 'hokoshu' (literally vassal group)were organized mainly from local powerful clans in nishigaoka.
they excelled in the urban battles in the meitoku no ran(meitoku rebellion)and the onin no ran(onin war):during the onin no ran,they attacked masahiro ouchi under the order of katsumoto hosokawa,playing a part in the muromachi political arena.
in the edo period,the sanin-kaido road ran across the present-day nishikyo ward,and katsura and the katagihara and oe areas along the road prospered as the shukuba-machi(post stations).
prince katsura had the katsura rikyu(katsura imperial villa)built on the sanin-kaido road and resided there.
katsura also served as an arrival and departure port for water transport via the hozu-gawa river.
the portion of ukyo ward to the west of the katsura-gawa river was separated to establish nishikyo ward on october 1,1976.
ward office
nishikyo ward office
zip code:615-8522
25-1 kamikatsura-morishita-cho,nishikyo ward,kyoto city,kyoto prefecture
tel:075-381-7121(the main switchboard number)
fax:075-381-6135
rakusei branch
zip code:610-1143
2-1-2 oharanohigashi-sakaidani-cho,nishikyo ward,kyoto city,kyoto prefecture
tel:075-332-8111(the main switchboard number)
fax:075-332-8188
education
adjacent municipalities
ukyo ward and minami ward in kyoto city
nagaokakyo city,muko city and kameoka city in kyoto prefecture
nagaokakyo city,muko city and kameoka city in kyoto prefecture
transportation
railroads
hankyu kyoto main line of hankyu railway
(from/to juso station)-rakusaiguchi station-katsura station-(from/to kawaramachi station(kyoto prefecture))
hankyu arashiyama line of hankyu railway
katsura station-kamikatsura station-matsuo station(kyoto prefecture)-arashiyama station(hankyu)
sanin main line of west japan railway(sagano line)
(from/to kyoto station)-hozukyo station*-(from/to kameoka station)
*hozukyo station is located on the border between nishikyo ward and kameoka city.
sagano scenic line of the sagano scenic railway
(from/to saga torokko station)-hozukyo torokko station-(from/to kameoka torokkostation)
roads
expressway
not available in the ward
scenic sites,historic sites,tourist spots,local products for tourists,festivals and events
katsura rikyu(katsura imperial villa)
saiho-ji temple(koke-dera temple)
matsuo-taisha shrine
kegon-ji temple(kyoto city)(suzumushi-dera temple)
horin-ji temple(nishikyo ward,kyoto city)
shouji-ji temple(hanano-tera temple)
jizo-in temple(nishikyo ward,kyoto city)(takeno-tera temple)
the jizo-in temple is located in yamada-kitano-cho,nishikyo ward.
it is an independently incorporated temple of the rinzai school.
the temple was established in mt.kinugasa by the kanrei(shogunal deputy)of the muromachi shogunate,yoriyuki hosokawa in 1367.
joju-ji temple
yoshimine-dera temple
oharano-jinja shrine
arashiyama and katsura-gawa river(yodo-gawa river system)
togetsu-kyo bridge
katagihara-haiji ato:a national historical relic site
others
collection and delivery in nishikyo ward except the rakusai area(rakusai post office)is operated by ukyo post office and kyoto west post office in ukyo ward due to the history of nishikyo ward's separation from ukyo ward.
rakusai post office:610-11xx
ukyo post office(ukyo ward):615-xxxx
kyoto west post office(ukyo ward):616-xxxx
