ine-cho
ine-cho is a town in kyoto prefecture.
the town is located in the northeastern part of tango peninsula,and is famous for funaya(a large cluster of traditional fishermen houses)(selected as one of the preservation districts for groups of historic buildings).
exchanges with the continent of asia were carried out actively in the tango peninsula,and ine-cho was located along the trade route between the capital kyoto and the continent.
today's major industries include fishing and tourism.
the legend of urashima taro originated and has been passed down over time from honjohama beach,ine-cho tsutsukawa.
history
november 3,1954:ine-cho was formed as a result of merging the four villages of ine-mura,asazuma-mura,tsutsukawa-mura and honjo-mura.
1993:nhk produced the asadora drama, "eenyobo" (a good wife),which was set in ine no funaya houses.
april 11,2005:the town office was relocated from aza-hirata to its current locale.
december 2,2007:yoro-ine bypass(second section)of national route no.178 was opened.
ine-cho's second traffic signal was completed.
geography
mountain
mt.taiko,mt.gongen(ine-cho),komori-dake(mt.komori)
bay
ine-wan bay
cape
washizaki cape,nizaki,nomurazaki,and taizaki
island
aoshima island(kyoto prefecture)
river
tsutsukawa
administration
town mayor
-hideki yoshimoto(from november 2006)
industry
fishery
ine fishing port
nizaki fishing port
honjo fishing port
kamanyu fishing port
fisheries cooperative association of ine-cho
ine-cho cooperative association of fisheries kamanyu branch
ine-cho cooperative association of fisheries honjoura branch
honjo fishery productive association
ine branch of jf marine bank kyoto
transportation
ine-cho has no airports or railroads.
bus
tango kairiku kotsu co.,ltd.
ine town bus(community bus)
medical services and welfare
medical services
ine-cho national health insurance clinic
ine-cho national health insurance ine clinic
ine-cho national health insurance honjo clinic
child welfare
ine-choritsu ine nursery school
ine-choritsu honjo nursery school
senior citizens and nursing care
special elderly nursing home chojuen
sightseeing spot
ine no funaya houses
tomari beach
honjohama beach
nunobiki no taki(nunobiki falls)
mt.taiko
okuhashitate ine onsen(okuhashitate ine hot spring)
indigenous products
fresh fish
locally-brewed sake(kyo no haru,take no tsuyu,eenyobo,etc.)
tsutsukawa soba noodle
ineyaki(ine chinaware)
processed fishery products(heshiko(a local food of wakasa,north of kyoto,which is salted mackerel in rice-bran paste),buri no misozuke(yellowtail seasoned in miso(soybean paste)),etc.)
