otokuni-gun(otokuni-no-kori district)
japan/kinki region/kyoto prefecture/otokuni-gun
list of provinces administered in the past by the ryo-sei,or administrative codes(令制国)/kinai(five provinces in the immediate vicinity of kyoto)/yamashiro province/otokuni-gun
otokuni-gun was a district in yamashiro province,and is presently a district in kyoto prefecture.
otokuni-gun is comprised of only the following town:
oyamazaki-cho
history
otokuni-gun used to include the entire region which includes present-day nagaokakyo city and muko city as well as the present-day nishikyo and minami wards,kyoto city and a portion of the present-day fushimi ward.
the name "otokuni-gun" is believed to have originated from the fact that the region had been called 'otokuni' (literally, "younger brother country").
additionally, "ekuni' (literally, "older brother country")is said to have been kadono-gun(the present-day west part of kyoto city).
nagaoka-kyo(the capital)and the ancient provincial office of yamashiro province were established in otokuni-gun.
april 10,1879:based on the gun-ku-cho-son henseiho(counties,wards,towns,and villages organization code),otokuni-gun district office was established in muko-machi.
april 1,1889:as a result of the enactment of the chosonsei(town and village system law),muko-machi,otokuni-mura,shinkotari-mura,kaiinji-mura,yodo-mura,koga-mura,hazukashi-mura,oe-mura,oharano-mura,kuze-mura and oyamazaki-mura were established in otokuni-gun.
otokuni-gun was comprised of one town and ten villages.
february 11,1936:yodo-cho,kuse-gun absorbed yodo-mura(in 1957,fushimi ward,kyoto city absorbed yodo-cho).
otokuni-gun was comprised of one town and nine villages.
july 1,1942:kita-yamashiro local office was set up in kyoto city to administer otagi-gun,kadono-gun and otokuni-gun.
october 1,1949:otokuni-mura,shinkotari-mura and kaiinji-mura were merged to form nagaoka-cho.
otokuni-gun was comprised of two towns and six villages.
december 1,1950:otokuni-gun was comprised of two towns and three villages.
fushimi ward,kyoto city absorbed koga-mura and hazukashi-mura.
ukyo ward,kyoto city absorbed oe-mura.
(nishikyo ward was created from ukyo ward in 1976.)
november 1,1959:otokuni-gun was comprised of two towns and one village.
ukyo ward,kyoto city absorbed oharano-mura.
(nishikyo ward was created from ukyo ward in 1976.)
minami ward,kyoto city absorbed kuze-mura.
november 3,1967:by implementing the chosei(grant of township),oyamazaki-mura became oyamazaki-cho.
otokuni-gun was comprised of three towns.
october 1,1972:otokuni-gun was comprised of one town.
by implementing the shisei(grant of city status),muko-machi became muko city and was separated from the gun(district)system.
by implementing the shisei and changing its name,nagaoka-cho became nagaokakyo city and was separated from the gun system.
"go" (unit of the smallest administrative area)in otokuni-gun
eleven "go," described in the wamyoruiju-sho(a dictionary compiled in the heian period)
kanji characters inside the brackets are for transcription.
yamasaki-go
tomoka-go
nagai-go
oe-go
mozume-go
kuze-go
enomoto-go
hatsukashi-go
ishitsukuri-go
nagaoka-go
ishikawa-go
