otsu port(shiga prefecture)
otsu port is a port located in shiga prefecture.
it faces lake biwa of which altitude of the lake surface is 84 meters.
it is located in hamaotsu in otsu city,shiga prefecture
summary
it was once flourished as a hub for waterway traffic on lake biwa.
after its decline because of improvement of the railway network,it has been used for departure and arrival of sightseeing ships as well as bases for various ships operated by governmental agencies.
it is also provided with an annexed marine and a green space developed as a park and used for a wide variety of leisure activities
facilities are managed by shiga prefecture,but the designated manager for port facilities and so on is biwako kisen and,for the marina,kansai maintenance shiga.
history
ancient time
it was established as a main port for otsukyo and used as a base of transportation on the lake.
medieval time
794
because of the transfer of national capital to the city of heiankyo,it was flourished as an outer harbor of the capital.
1586
hideyoshi toyotomi built otsu-jo castle and otsu port was flourished as an important point for waterway traffic.
next year,nagayoshi asano of otsu domain collected ships of domains along the shore of the lake to otsu in accordance with hideyoshi's order.
this became otsu hyakusosen(literally,100 ships of otsu)later,and it was given privileges concerning cargo handling at otsu port and so on from rulers in each age.
early-modern time
march 1869
the first steamship in lake in japan 'ichibanmaru' went into service between otsu and kaizu.
it was operated by daishoji domain(otsu kisenkyoku[otsu steamship bureau]).
after 'ichibanmaru' went into service,steamships of various operators went into service and the number of water routes was also increased.
the number of operators and water routes for local routes in the southern part of the lake were also gradually increased.
1878
tokaido main line was extended to hamaotsu station.
1883
operation of railway ferry to nagahama station,to which railway went into service in the preceding year,was commenced.
1889
whole tokaido main line went into service.
along with progress of development of railway network,transportation by lake declined.
1894
regular service of excursion boats was commenced and the port was restored as a base for sightseeing on the lake.
1951
harimaru went into service.
1981
michigan went into service
main facilities
landing pier
large-sized floating pier
no.1 pier
it is used by 'bianca,' 'shiga prefecture lake biwa floating school' and so on.
no.2 pier
it is connected to the fixed pier.
it is used by 'michigan' and so on.
medium-sized floating pier
no.3 pier
small-sized pier
a-e piers
they are used by governmental agencies and so on.
l pier(cargo unloading facility)
others
piers of the marina(g-h piers)
otsu port marina
revetment in front of hotel(j-k piers)
dolphines and fuel supply facilities and so on for pleasure boats
terminal building for passengers
baiwako hanafunsui
one of the world's largest fountains provided on the breakwater(quadruple,450-meter wide)in front of symbol green space
green space
main water routes
for more information on water routes and ships,refer to section of biwako kisen.
biwako kisen
otsu port->otsu prince hotel port->(sightseeing cruise)->otsu port
otsu port->okishima island->chikubujima island->nagahama port(shiga prefecture)->otsu port
connecting service to other water routes(otsu prince hotel port-otsu port-ogoto onsen port,kusatsu karasuma hanto port and so on)
festivals
august 8
lake biwa fireworks festival
access
hamaotsu station,keihan ishiyama-sakamoto line,keihan electric railway
approximately three minutes on foot
otsu station,biwako line,west japan railway company
approximately five minutes ride by bus,and get off at hamaotsu bus stop
regular bus services are available from zeze station,biwako line,otsukyo station,kosei line,and so on.
location
5-1-1,hamaotsu,otsu city,shiga prefecture,520-0047
nearby spots
hamaotsu a-qus
biwako hotel
nakagawa bijutsukan mushian
museum of shiga prefecture,biwako bunkakan
biwako hall
nagisa koen park(otsu city)
otsu prince hotel
