azuchi town
azuchi town is located on the east bank of lake biwa in the east part of shiga prefecture.
it is known as the place where the azuchi-jo castle was built which is the word origin of japanese historical period 'the azuchi-momoyama period.'
although azuchi town is often pronounced with a high falling intonation in the japanese common language,it is pronounced without inflection in the local language.
geography
lake biwa
nishi-no-ko lake
mt.kinugasa
432.7 meters high.
mt.mitsukuri
375.3 meters high.
mt.azuchi
198.9 meters high.
adjacent cities
omihachiman city
higashiomi city
history
1954:azuchi town was established by the merger of azuchi village and oiso village in gamo county.
1955:shimizuhana district was incorporated into gokasho town(now higashiomi city),kanzaki county(shiga prefecture).
refer to the article of azuchi-jo castle for the history centering on the azuchi-jo castle.
population
government
mayor:takashi tsumura
sister cities and partnership cities
in japan
oda nobunaga summit(summit of cities related with nobunaga oda)
kiyosu city(aichi prefecture)
komaki city(aichi prefecture)
gifu city(gifu prefecture)
ogaki city(gifu prefecture)
azuchi city(shiga prefecture)
takashima city(shiga prefecture)
echizen town(fukui prefecture)
kanra town(gunma prefecture)
tendo city(yamagata prefecture)
in overseas
mantova(lombardia,italy)
it established a sister city relationship on february 20,2005.
facilities
azuchi municipal library
the capacity of the library is about 110,000 books.
it has also 'azuchi bunko archives' which contains materials on nobunaga oda.
azuchi town community center
lessons for residents and workers of azuchi town are held regularly at this community center.
the community center promotes learning on cooking,local history.
takumi no sato(craft village)
this was built with the goal of contributing to the succession of the town's history and culture.
there are one building for training and one for the facility's specialty.
transportation
railway
west japan railway company(jr west)
tokaido main line:azuchi station
roads
national route
national route 8
main regional road
shiga prefectural road 2 otsu-notogawa-nagahama line
other regional roads
shiga prefectural road 198 azuchi-teishajo kuwanomidera-temple-hondo line
shiga prefectural road 201 azuchi-nishorai line
shiga prefectural road 511 kurimi-shinden-azuchi line
shiga prefectural road 526 iba-maruyama line
historic scenes,sightseeing spots,festivals and events
sightseeing
bungei no sato(a cultural facility and park)
shiga prefectural azuchi castel archaeological museum
former miyaji family residence
built in 1754,a national important cultural property.
former azuchi junsa chuzaisho(police station)
built in 1885,a registered tangible cultural property.
former ryugen gakko school building
built in 1876,a cultural property designated by shiga prefecture.
it was moved from ota,shin asahi-cho,takashima city.
azuchi castle tenshu nobunaga no yakata museum
this is the restored tenshu(the fifth and sixth storeys)of the azuchi-jo castle,which was exhibited at the seville world expo.
bungei seminario hall
azuchi marieto hall
azuchi castle museum
folk museum
former iba family residence(built in 1913,a western-style building designed by william merrell vories)
historic scenes
the former site of azuchi-jo castle
this place is also famous for cherry-blossom viewing.
oiso forest
oiso-jinja shrine
its main hall is a national important cultural property.
the remains of kannonji-jo castle
kannonsho-ji temple:stamp office for temple number 32 of the saigoku sanjusankasho(the 33 temples that are visited during the kansai kannon pilgrimage)
kuwanomi-dera temple
soken-ji temple
jogonin temple
azuchi dialogue(the azuchi religious debate)was conducted by jodo(pure land)and nichiren sects at this temple.
sasaki-jinja shrine
this shrine is the cradle(birthplace)of the sasaki-genji(minamoto clan).
iwato yama jusanbutsu(13 buddha of mt.iwato)
the site of azuchi seminario
