tanba-cho
tanba-cho was a town that existed on the border between the central part of kyoto prefecture and hyogo prefecture.
it was a quiet town surrounded by mountains and greenery in the tanba highlands.
the town once flourished as a post station on the sanin kaido road.
on october 11,2005,tanba-cho and the two nearby towns were combined to form kyotanba-cho.
geography
the takaya-gawa river and the shuchi-gawa river,tributaries of the yura-gawa river system,run through the town with countryside views.
the area around tanba-cho is the watershed of the yura-gawa river system and the yodo-gawa river system.
the takeno area is located in the south,and is connected to sonobe-cho via kannon-toge mountain pass(the national route 9).
the shuchi area is located in the south of the central part,boasting core facilities such as the municipal office and tanba markesu.
the takahara area is located in the north of the central part,and crops in particular are widely grown in the area.
the shimoyama area is located in the north,and forms a part of fluvial terrace of the takaya-gawa river.
the area around the shuchi shopping street shows signs of the once flourishing post station on the sanin kaido road.
tanba markesu located along the national route 9 is a large commercial complex containing grocery and other stores,which are filled with shoppers.
history
1955:
april 1:shuchi-cho and takahara-mura were combined to form tanba-cho.
2004:
february 27:a suspected case of avian influenza was reported in a farm in the town.
a tanba-cho task force on highly pathogenic avian influenza was established on the same day to deal with the emergency,
february 29:the farm tested positive for avian influenza.
march 5:another farm tested positive.
march 22:all biosecurity measures had been implemented.
april 1,2004:a council on municipal merger of tanba-cho,mizuho-cho(kyoto prefecture),and wachi-cho was established.
october 11,2005:these three towns were combined to implement the chosei of kyotanba-cho(grant of township).
politics and government
yoshio yokoyama(since 1994)
economy
industries
agriculture(centered on rice cultivation and dairy farming)and forestry are the town's main industries.
specialty crops such as tanba black bean,tanba matsutake mushroom,and tanba chestnut are famous.
sister and associated cities
domestic
kamishihoro-cho in hokkaido(friendship town)
on january 1,1976,a friendship town agreement was signed.
international
hawkesbury,new south wales,australia(sister city)
district
health
average age
education
transportation
railroads
west japan railway company(jr west)
shimoyama station(kyoto prefecture)on the sanin main line
roads
expressway
kyoto longitudinal expressway
tanba interchange
fixed-route bus
jr bus(on the national route 9)
keihan kyoto kotsu bus(on the national route 9 and 27)
scenic sites,historic sites,tourist spots,festivals and events
major tourist spots are the tanba shizen undo koen park,koto-daki(koto falls),and the wine house.
