funai-gun
japan/kinki region/kyoto prefecture/funai-gun
funai-gun is a district(or 'gun' in japanese)located in the center of kyoto prefecture.
funai-gun belonged to tanba province before the meiji restoration.
the district includes the following towns:
kyotanba-cho
history
april 1,1889:as a result of the enactment of the chosonsei(town and village system law),sonobe-cho and twenty-three villages were established in funai-gun.
funai-gun was comprised of one town and twenty-three villages.
october 10,1894:tominosho-mura and honjo-mura were merged to form tomimoto-mura.
funai-gun was comprised of one town and twenty-two villages.
july 19,1901:through the implementation of the chosei(grant of township),shuchi-mura became shuchi-cho.
funai-gun was comprised of two towns and twenty-one villages.
january 1,1915:through the implementation of the chosei,yagi-mura became yagi-cho.
funai-gun was comprised of three towns and twenty villages.
april 1,1929:sonobe-cho,sonobe-mura and kirinosho-mura were merged to form sonobe-cho.
funai-gun was comprised of three towns and eighteen villages.
april 1,1951:funai-gun was comprised of three towns and ten villages.
sonobe-cho absorbed kawabe-mura.
yagi-cho absorbed yoshitomi-mura,tomimoto-mura and shinjo-mura.
shuchi-cho absorbed takeno-mura.
hinokiyama-mura,umeda-mura,sannomiya-mura and shitsumi-mura were merged to form mizuho-mura.
april 1,1955:funai-gun was comprised of six towns and three villages.
through the implementation of the chosei,mizuho-mura became mizuho-cho(kyoto prefecture).
shuchi-cho and takahara-mura were merged to form tanba-cho.
seki-mura,gokasho-mura and gomago-mura were merged to form hiyoshi-cho(kyoto prefecture).
kamiwachi-mura and shimowachi-mura were merged to form wachi-cho.
yagi-cho absorbed kamiyoshi-mura,kita-kuwada-gun.
april 20,1955:sonobe-cho,make-mura and nishihonme-mura were merged to form sonobe-cho.
funai-gun was comprised of six towns and one village.
september 30,1956:kameoka city absorbed higasihonme-mura.
funai-gun was comprised of six towns.
april 1,1958:sonobe-cho absorbed a part of kameoka city.
october 11,2005:tanba-cho,wachi-cho and mizuho-cho were merged to form kyotanba-cho.
funai-gun was comprised of four towns.
january 1,2006:sonobe-cho,yagi-cho and hiyoshi-cho were merged with miyama-cho,kita-kuwada-gun(kyoto prefecture)to form nantan city,and the city was separated from the gun(district)system.
funai-gun was comprised of one town.
"go" (unit of the smallest administrative area)in funai-gun,described in the wamyo-sho(a dictionary compiled in the heian period)
osakabe-go(gyobu-go,刑部郷)
shima-go
funai-go
izuka-go(出鹿郷)
tahara-go
yoto-go(yodo-go,余戸郷)
kinosaki-go
noguchi-go
shuchi-go
kochi-go(皷打郷)
kimae-go(木前郷)
