fu
fu
china
"zang(warehouse)"
1.the original meaning is the warehouse where government properties or goods were stored in ancient china.
2.a well harvested,rich,fertile land suitable for agriculture.
also called 'tian-fu(land of abundance).'
places such as sichuan.
"zheng ting(government office)"
3.government offices which the feudal royal family opened in various areas,as a base of military and public administration within china,from the han to ming dynasty.
also called "wang fu(royal residence)."
derived from the government offices(zheng ting)which used to have lines of warehouses for storing tax grains.
4.royal mansions were located at key spots in capitals and major cities of china,from the ming to qing dynasty.
while only a residency,but it was also known as "wang fu," derived from the description in point 1 concerning wang fu.
emperor yongle of nanjing,in the early ming dynasty,or gongqinwan of beijing in qing dynasty.
"di qu(area)"
5.from the tang to song dynasty,the military governor who controlled military and civil authorities in various locations was based in this area.
it then evolved from the above wang fu,also called 'shi fu(official posts).'
now,there are many places with "zhou" such as guanzhou city,yangzhou or xuchang.
many of these places took on the names of areas mentioned in '6.'
6.administrative area superceeding prefectures in china from the tang to qing dynasty.
7.during the song to qing dynasties,sub titles for major cities functioned as capitals or sub capitals in china and northern national countries.
examples include,kaifeng of northern song,hangzhou of southern song,datong of liao dynasty(shanxi province),nanjing city or beijing city of ming dynasty or shenyan of qing dynasty.
japan
derived from the meaning of chinese 'zheng ting(government office).'
dazaifu:authority for defense and diplomacy of japan with jurisdiction over kyushu,iki and tsushima from ancient times to the period of the ritsuryo system's(criminal,administrative and civil codes)japan.
kokufu:under the ritsuryo system,cities developed around the kokuga(provincial government headquarters).
naidaijin-fu:facilities and organization where the base of operations for the naidaijin-fu(minister of interior's office)were located from the meiji to the early showa period.
su-fu:vernacular term for 'sumitsu-in(privy council).'
sotoku-fu:facility used as an office by the government-general in foreign countries from the meiji to the early showa period.
such as the taiwan sotoku-fu,kankoku sotoku-fu,chosen sotoku-fu,kanto sotoku-fu or kantototoku-fu(japan's guandong governor-general office).
sori-fu(prime mister's office):general administrative agency which used to be administered by the prime minister.
naikaku-fu(cabinet office):a general administrative agency created from the sori-fu during the reorganization of the central government ministries and agencies in 2001.
daitoryo-fu(office of the president)/shusho-fu(prime minister's office):general names for facilities used by foreign presidents or prime ministers as a main office.
same as 'world's official residence.'
white house,the chancellor's office(germany).
the concept of 'governor,' derived from the meaning of chinese 'zheng ting,' was localized in japan.
sa-fu:tang name(the tang-system name used for japanese officers)for sadaijin(minister of the left)under ritsuryo system.
u-fu:tang name for udaijin(minister of the right)under the ritsuryo system.
nai-fu:tang name for naidaijin(minister of interior)under the ritsuryo system.
bakufu:tang name for konoe daisho(imperial guard chief)under the ritsuryo system.
minamoto no yoritomo used to be called 'bakufu' since he was ukone-no-daisho(imperial guard chief of the right)before becoming seii taishogun(literally, "great general who subdues the barbarians").
later,this transitioned into the meaning for 'whereabouts of shogun.'
nai-fu:vernacular term for 'udaijin-fu' which existed from meiji to early showa.
the concept of 'military' derived from the meaning of the chinese term 'zheng ting,' which was localized in japan.
goe-fu of konoeheiryo-sei(five imperial guard of the imperial guard system):five organizations who mainly guarded dairi,the imperial palace,under the ritsuryo system.
konoehei rokue-fu(six imperial guard):the upper goe-fu(five imperial guard)was reorganized in the later nara period,and became rokue-fu(six imperial guard),each consisting of the right and left of konoe-fu(a division of the imperial guard),hyoe-fu(a division of the imperial guard)and emon-fu(an order of guards to keep the gates of heiankyo).
chinju-fu kodai chinju-fu(ancient military base):an organization to control the military based in the ancient mutsu province.
bakufu:during the kamakura and muromachi period,this meant 'the shogun's whereabouts.'
bakufu started to mean 'the feudal government headed by a shogun' from around the mid-edo period.
chinju-fu kaigun chinju-fu(navy base):naval bases located at military ports in each navel area(japanese coast was divided into five navy areas).
yokosuka chinju-fu,kure chinju-fu,sasebo chinju-fu,and maizuru chinju-fu all existed until the end of wwii.
derived from the chinese term 'di qu.'
edo:derived from the meaning of 'whereabouts of bakufu,' entering edo was described as 'nyufu,' while the town inside of edo was described as 'fuchu.'
fu han ken-sei(fu,han and ken system):immediately after the meiji restoration,the land controlled by kyoto shoshidai(the bakufu-appointed governors of kyoto),chatelaines and bugyo(shogunate administrators),which were part of bakufu-ruled lands,were reformed as 'fu.'
examples include hakodate-fu,edo-fu,kanagawa-fu,echigo-fu,niigata-fu,kai-fu,watarai-fu,nara-fu,kyoto-fu,osaka-fu and nagasaki-fu.
until the haihan-chiken(abolition of feudal domains and establishment of prefectures),six fu domains were abolished and three fu domains were left.
sanpu(three urban prefectures):tokyo-fu,kyoto-fu and osaka-fu prefectures existed from the meiji to the showa period.
in 1943,tokyo became 'to,' and two fu domains of osaka and kyoto were left.
under the colonial administration of korea,administrative districts were placed in major cities.
equivalent of city in the home country.
