soraku-gun(soraku district,or sagara-no-kori)
japan/kinki region/kyoto prefecture/soraku-gun
list of provinces administered in the past by the ryo-sei,or administrative codes(令制国)/kinai(five provinces in the immediate vicinity of kyoto)/yamashiro province/soraku-gun
soraku-gun was formerly a district in yamashiro province,and is a district in kyoto prefecture.
soraku-gun includes the following three towns and one village:
kasagi-cho
seika-cho
wazuka-cho
minami-yamashiro-mura
history
there used to be the provincial monastery of yamashiro province.
april 10,1879:based on the gun-ku-cho-son henseiho(counties,wards,towns,and villages organization code),soraku district office was established in kizu-mura.
april 1,1889:as a result of the enactment of the chosonsei(town and village system law),nineteen villages were established in soraku-gun.
soraku-gun was comprised of nineteen villages.
november 22,1893:by implementing the chosei(grant of township),kizu-mura became kizu-cho.
soraku-gun was comprised of one town and eighteen villages.
july 1,1926:by implementing the chosei,kamikoma-mura became kamikoma-cho.
soraku-gun was comprised of two towns and seventeen villages.
february 11,1928:by implementing the chosei,kamo-mura became kamo-cho(kyoto prefecture).
soraku-gun was comprised of three towns and sixteen villages.
october 1,1931:komada-mura,hosono-mura,and inada-mura were merged to form kawanishi-mura.
soraku-gun was comprised of three towns and fourteen villages.
january 1,1934:by implementing the chosei,kasagi-mura became kasagi-cho.
soraku-gun was comprised of four towns and thirteen villages.
july 1,1942:soraku local office was set up in kizu-cho to administer soraku-gun.
april 1,1951:kuse-gun was comprised of four towns and nine villages.
kizu-cho absorbed saganaka-mura.
kamo-cho absorbed tono-mura and mikanohara-mura.
kawanishi-mura and yamadasho-mura were merged to form seika-mura.
december 15,1954:nishiwazuka-mura,nakawazuka-mura,and higashiwazuka-mura were combined to form wazuka-cho.
soraku-gun was comprised of five towns and six villages.
april 1,1955:kuse-gun was comprised of six towns and four villages.
by implementing the chosei,seika-mura became seika-cho.
okawara-mura and takayama-mura were combined to form minami-yamashiro-mura.
august 1,1956:kamikoma-cho,korai-mura,and tanakura-mura were combined to form yamashiro-cho(kyoto prefecture).
soraku-gun was comprised of six towns and two villages.
september 30,1956:wazuka-cho absorbed yubune-mura.
soraku-gun was comprised of six towns and one village.
march 12,2007:kizu-cho,yamashiro-cho,and kamo-cho were merged to form kizugawa city,and the city was separated from the gun(district)system.
soraku-gun was comprised of three towns and one village.
shikinaisha(shrines listed in the books of the jinmyo-cho in the engishiki,or a volume of books on laws and regulation compiled during the engi era)
the engishiki jinmyo-cho lists the following six shrines of four grand and two small shrines under the district of sagara-no-kori,yamashiro province:
hosono-jinja shrine(oaza hosono,seika-cho,soraku-gun):it is a grand shrine and celebrates the tsukinami-no-matsuri(monthly festival)and the niiname-sai(harvest festivals).
wakinimasu-amenofukime-jinja shrine(hirao,yamashiro-cho,kizugawa city):it is a grand shrine and celebrates the tsukinami-no-matsuri and the niiname-sai.
kiharanimasu-tateinadahime-jinja shrine(kabatayamagiwa,yamashiro-cho,kizugawa city)
saganaka-jinja shrine(saganaka,kizugawa city)
okadakamo-jinja shrine(kamo-cho-kita,kizugawa city):it is a grand shrine and celebrates the tsukinami-no-matsuri and the niiname-sai.
okadakuni-jinja shrine:it is a grand shrine with the two ronsha shrines(successor of the original shrine)and celebrates the tsukinami-no-matsuri and the niiname-sai.
the sessha shrine(auxiliary shrine dedicated to the deity related to the main shrine)of the katteno-jinja shrine,and kasuga-jinja shrine(ono,kamo-cho,kizugawa city)
okadakuni-jinja shrine(otani,kizu,kizugawa city)
