town names of the ukyo ward,kyoto city
this section shows the list of the official town names in the ukyo ward and summarizes the period and process of their establishment.
summary of the ukyo ward
the uzumasa district where the ukyo ward office is located,is in the western urban area of kyoto city.
the ward includes the mountainous areas such as mt.takao and mt.atago(kyoto city),which is located north of the uzumasa district,and also includes the area of the former keihoku town,which is located to the north.
it shares a border with the wards of sakyo,kita(kyoto city),nakagyo,shimogyo,minami(kyoto city)and nishikyo from the east to the south,and with the cities of kameoka and nantan from the west to the north.
it is 291.95 square km in area.
its population is estimated to be about 204,000 as of march 2009.
its area is the largest among the eleven wards in kyoto city.
the ward includes the sagano which is a famous sightseeing area as well as the districts of takao,makinoo and toganoo which are titled 'sanbi' (all of the districts are famous for their finest views of autumn leaves),with many famous temples and shrines including the temples of myoshin-ji,ninna-ji,ryoan-ji,koryu-ji,tenryu-ji,daikaku-ji,zingo-ji,kozan-ji,and atago-jinja shrine.
the ward was established in 1931.
in the same year,kyoto city spread by integrating many neighboring towns and villages,and the ukyo ward was newly created which consisted of the former town and nine villages of the kadono county,that is,saga town and kyogoku,sanin,uzumasa,umezu,hanazono,umegahata,matsuo,katsura and kawaoka villages.
the area at this time corresponded to a part which excludes the former keihoku town from the present ukyo ward and a part of the present nishikyo ward.
in 1976 the area of the right bank of the katsura-gawa river(including former matsuo,katsura and kawaoka villages)was split off to form the nishikyo ward.
in 2005 it integrated the keihoku town,kitakuwada county,in what was called 'the great merger of municipalities in the heisei era.'
summary of towns
the town's names in kyoto city are categorized into ones which use the former village name or former oaza(larger section of village)such as 'ohara raikoin-cho' (in this case, 'ohara')and ones which uses an independent name such as 'kameya-cho' and 'kikuya-cho.'
the names of the towns in the ukyo ward is all include district names as a prefix,such as the former oaza.
according to the second volume of "kadokawa nihon chimei daijiten no.26 kyoto-fu" (kadokawa dictionary of place-names of japan,no.26 kyoto prefecture),there were officially 608 declared towns in 1980.
these towns have been there(2009-present).
since the keihoku town was integrated in 2005 and 1,232 towns were newly created,there have been 1,840 towns(2009-present).
there are some towns which do not have the letters 'cho' (which means town)as a suffix such as 'narutaki uda no tani' and 'umegahata mukoyama.'
these were mountainous regions where is uninhabited when the ukyo town was established in 1931.
the list of official town names
the former kyogoku village
the former kyogoku village,kadono county,was integrated into kyoto city in 1931,and became a part of the ukyo ward.
there were three oaza in the kyogoku village:senshoji,kori and tokudaiji.
these were reorganized into eighty-two towns in total,that is,forty-six towns which were prefixed by the name of 'nishikyogoku,' thirty-four towns which were prefixed by the name 'nishikyogoku kori' and two towns which were prefixed by the name 'nishikyogoku tokudaiji,' respectively.
these eighty-two towns have been reorganized into sixty-four towns through the following history.
(established in 1966)hashizume-cho
(abolished in 1966)shimokawara-cho,yotsuike-cho
(established in 1969)higashi,nishi,minami and kitakoromodecho,shinmeicho,higashi and nishiomarucho,kadonocho,koricho,higashi and nishiikedacho,hamanomotocho,and kita and minamishozakai-cho.
(changed the prefix from 'nishikyogoku kori' to 'nishikyogoku' in 1969)kita and minamioiri-cho,umazukacho,shindencho and noda-cho
(abolished in 1969)ikedacho,kakeochicho,shozakaicho,mizobatacho,rokujocho,kori asashirocho,kori omiyatacho,kori kokocho,kori kitauracho,kori kitadonoatocho,kori minamidonoatocho,kori gotandacho,kori koromodecho,kori mitandacho,kori shijonawatecho,kori shichitandacho,kori shibadoicho,kori shimokawaracho,kori sinjobocho,kori sumiakecho,kori daihacho,kori fuzucho,kori tsukudacho,kori tsujidocho,kori nabefuchicho,kori nitandacho,kori hamanomotocho,kori hiwataricho,kori heijiricho,kori miyanoatocho and kori rokujo-cho
the former sanin village
there were two oaza,yamanouchi and sanin in the former sanin village,kadono county.
among them,the area of oaza yamanouchi became fifteen towns which here prefixed by the name of 'yamanouchi' and two towns(kanazuchicho and shijobata-cho)which here prefixed by the name of sanin.
a part of oaza sanin was integrated into the shimogyo ward in 1918(which corresponds to the present nakagyo ward).
the other part of oaza sanin was integrated into kyoto city in 1931 and became a part of the ukyo ward which consisted of thirty-eight towns which were prefixed by the name 'sanin' and the yamanouchi naemachi town.
the sixteen towns which were prefixed by the name 'yamanouchi' still exist today.
the forty towns which were prefixed by the name 'sanin' were reorganized into the current fifty towns through the following process.
(established in 1939)kozanjicho,matsuicho,nishisanzocho,nishihiramachi,kita and nishi yakagecho,nishi and minami takadacho,kotobukicho,nishi and minami kotobukicho,nakamizucho,higashi and nishi nakamizucho and nishi mizosaki-cho
(abolished in 1939)gojo-cho and nakamizo-cho
(established in 1954)kami,higashi and nishi imadacho,kami and shimo hanadacho,higashi and nishi junnaincho and kasuga-cho
(abolished in 1954)imadacho,ushitoracho,hanadacho and junnain-cho
(established in 1969)kita and minami igoryo-cho
(abolished in 1969)igoryocho,umatsukacho,katsuracho,higashi,nishi and naka omarucho,hanedacho,babacho and higashida-cho
the former uzumasa village
the former uzumasa village,kadono county,was integrated into kyoto city in 1931,and became a part of the ukyo ward.
in the uzumasa village,there were five oaza:uzumasa,yasui,nakano,tokiwadani and sagano.
among them,the oaza uzumasa and oaza nakano were reorganized into the sixty-five towns which were prefixed by the name 'uzumasa,' while oaza yasui was reorganized into eighteen towns which were prefixed by the name 'uzumasa yasui,' and oaza tokiwadani was reorganized into nineteen towns which were prefixed by the name 'tokiwa,' and oaza sagano reorganized into seventeen towns which were prefixed by the name 'sagano.'
among sixty-five towns which were prefixed by the name 'uzumasa,' the nine towns were included in oaza nakano,which included miyanomaecho,kyonomichicho,kitarocho,nakasujicho,kainichicho,horiikecho,goryodencho,nakayamacho and sanbi-cho.
the above district bearing the name 'sagano' is other than the famous sightseeing spot, 'sagano.'
the former umezu village
the former umezu village,kadono county,was integrated into kyoto city in 1931,and became a part of the ukyo ward.
in umezu village,there were two oaza:higashi umezu and nishi umezu.
among them,the area of oaza higashi umezu was mostly reorganized into twenty-four towns which were prefixed by the name 'umezu,' and the rest remained as oaza higashi umezu.
the area of oaza nishi umezu was reorganized into six towns which were prefixed by the name 'umezu' (fushiharacho,fukenokawacho,maedacho,nakakuracho,shirimizocho and onawaba-cho).
after that,higashi kamaeguchicho and minami ueda-cho were established and nagamichicho,hatadacho and rokutake-cho were abolished in 1969,and there are now twenty-nine towns which are headed by the name 'umezu.'
in 1965,all places in kyoto city whose names included the terms 'oaza' and 'aza' (the latter meaning a small section of a village)were renamed with the suffix 'cho',therefore,a place called 'oaza xx aza yy' would have been renamed 'xxyy-cho'.
at this time,the district which existed as 'oaza higashi umezu' was reorganized into higashi umezu maeko-cho.
the former saga town(shimosaga,kamisaga and tenryuji)
the former saga town,kadono county,was integrated into kyoto city in 1931,and became a part of the ukyo ward.
saga town was originally saga village when the municipal government act came into effect in 1889.
it integrated shimosaga village in 1903 and became saga town in 1923.
in saga town,there were six oaza:kamisaga,shimosaga,tenryuji,mizuo,hara and koshihata.
among them,the oaza kamisaga was reorganized into fifty-six towns which were prefixed by the name 'saga' and ten towns prefixed by the name 'kitasaga,' the oaza shimosaga into sixteen towns prefixed by the name 'saga,' and oaza tenryuji into twenty-three towns which were prefixed by the name 'saga.'
the former oaza kamisaga included the kiyotaki district and the atago-jinja shrine on the top of mt.atago.
the former saga town(mizuo,hara and koshihata)
among the oaza of former saga town,kadono county,oaza mizuo was reorganized into twenty-six towns which were prefixed by the name of 'saga mizuo,' the oaza hara into twenty-six towns which were prefixed by the name of 'saga shikimigahara,' and oaza koshihata which included twenty-nine towns which bore the name of 'saga koshihata.'
the former hanazono village
the former hanazono village,kadono county,was integrated into kyoto city in 1931,and became a part of the ukyo ward.
in the hanazono village,there were four oaza:hanazono,utano,taniguchi and omuro.
among them the oaza hanazono was reorganized into twenty-eight towns which were prefixed by the name 'hanazono.'
the oaza utano was reorganized into ten towns which were prefixed by the name of 'utano,' twenty-four towns which were prefixed by the name of 'narutaki,' five towns which were prefixed by the name of 'yamagoe,' and ondoyama yamanochaya-cho.
the oaza taniguchi was reorganized into five towns which were prefixed by the name of 'taniguchi' and eleven towns which were prefixed by the name of 'ryoanji.'
the oaza omuro was mostly reorganized into five towns which were prefixed by the name of 'omuro,' and the rest were left as oaza omuro.
in 1965,in kyoto city,all the districts the names of which included the terms 'oaza' and 'aza' (the latter meaning a small section of a village)were renamed with the suffix 'cho,' so a place called 'oaza xx aza yy' would have been renamed 'xxyy-cho'.
at this time,the district of oaza omuro was reorganized as omuro sumiyoshiyama-cho and omuro narabigaoka-cho.
the former umegahata village
the former umegahata village,kadono county,was integrated into kyoto city in 1931,and became a part of the ukyo ward.
in the umegahata village,there is no oaza and its area was reorganized into fifty-two towns which were prefixed by the name of 'umegahata.'
the former keihoku town
the keihoku district in the ukyo ward was the former keihoku town,kitakuwada county,which was integrated into the ukyo ward,kyoto city,at the time of what was called 'the great merger of municipalities in the heisei era' in 2005.
the merger of other municipalities into kyoto city was the first time in the forty-six years after the merger of the villages of kuse(the present minami ward)and oharano(the present nishikyo ward)in 1959.
this area consisted of six villages in the kitakuwada county when the municipal government act came into effect in 1889.
among them,shuzan village became shuzan town in 1943.
the single town and five villages including the shuzan town were merged into the keihoku town in 1955.
the names of the villages and their oaza are as follows.
in the kuroda village there were seven oaza(seryo,haiya,katanami,kamikuroda,miya,shimokuroda and hirogawara)
in the yamakuni village there were ten oaza(oshio,hatsukawa,ido,ono,higae,nakae,to,tsuji,torii and shimo)
in the yuge village there were nine oaza(kaminaka,shimonaka,shimoyuge,shiota,izaki,akaishi,tanuki,shittan and kamiyuge)
in the shuzan town there were nine oaza(uno,azae,nishi,yashironaka,urushitani,kumada,shimokumada,gohonmatsu and shuzan)
in the hosono village there is no oaza.
in the uzu village there were six oaza(kashiwara,yuzuki,tochimoto,chuji,akashi and shimouzu)
the area of the former hosono village became oaza hosono,keihoku town,and the other forty-one oaza(one town and four villages)became the oaza in keihoku town,therefore,there were forty-two oaza in the keihoku town at the time of establishment.
however,after oaza hirogawara which was near kyoto city was integrated into the sakyo ward,kyoto city in 1957,this number was reduced to forty-one oaza in keihoku town.
in 2005,keihoku town was integrated into ukyo ward,kyoto city,and forty-one oaza were reorganized into 1,232 towns which were prefixed by the name of 'keihoku.'
as the following example shows,in principle,town's name of 'aza b,oaza a,keihoku town' was changed to 'b,keihoku-a-cho,ukyo ward.'
aza kamiterada,oaza shuzan,keihoku town,kitakuwada county,kyoto prefecture' was changed to 'kamiterada,keihoku-shuzan-cho,ukyo ward,kyoto city'
remarks
nishikyogoku hinotsume-cho
according to the second volume of "kadokawa nihon chimei daijiten no.26 kyoto-fu" (kadokawa dictionary of place-names of japan,no.26 kyoto prefecture),(hereinafter 'kadokawa'),it is a town with a sole waterway uninhabited,even though it is not shown on any map.
higashiumezu maeko-cho
according to 'kadokawa,' it is the only town inhabited having a road running through,even though this is not shown on any map.
narutaki ikenotani
according to 'kadokawa,' it is a mountainous area where no one lives,although this is not shown on any map.
umegahata takao nishitani
according to 'kadokawa,' it is a mountainous area inhabited,even though this is not shown on any map.
nishikyogoku kori tsukisu-cho
according to 'kadokawa,' it was abolished in 1969,although the name is still on the postal code list.
in 'the ordinance on the area of kyoto city' (the no.7 ordinance of kyoto city as of april 1,1949),the name of nishikyogoku kori tsukisu-cho is not shown either.
for convenience,the town numbers in this section are based on the numbers described in the 'kadokawa.'
