kamigyo ward
kamigyo ward is one of the eleven wards that constitute kyoto city.
located in the center of the city,kamigyo ward occupies the northern part of former kyoto.
kamo-gawa river(yodo-gawa river system)flows on the east side.
the kyoto prefectural government office is located in this ward.
history
april 10,1897:kamigyo ward was established in kyoto prefecture.
april 1,1889:this ward was merged with shimogyo ward to inaugurate kyoto city.
kamigyo ward and shimogyo ward became an administrative ward of kyoto city.
april 1,1929:sakyo ward was separated.
in addition,nakagyo ward and higashiyama ward were generated by separating kamigyo ward and shimogyo ward.
september 1,1955:kita ward(kyoto city)was generated by separating kamigyo ward.
educational facilities,museums and cultural facilities
museums
kyoto-shi koko shiryokan(the kyoto city archeological museum)
kyoto-shi rekishi shiryokan(the kyoto city historical museum)
chado research center gallery
raku museum
kyo-gashi shiryokan(the kyoto confectionery museum)
masutomi geology museum
transportation
railroads
karasuma line of kyoto municipal subway
(to/from kokusaikaikan station)-kuramaguchi station*-imadegawa station-(to/from takeda station(kyoto prefecture))
kuramaguchi station was placed in the boundary between this ward and kita ward(kyoto city).
roads
scenic sites,historic sites,tourist spots,specialty,festivals and events
kyoto-gyoen park-kyoto gosho(kyoto imperial palace)
seimei-jinja shrine
kitano tenmangu shrine
goo-jinja shrine
genmu-jinja shrine
injo-ji temple(kyoto city)
daihoon-ji temple
st.agnes' episcopal church(anglican),kyoto(constructed in 1898 and has been designated as a national important cultural property).
st.joseph roman catholic church,nishijin,kyoto
the meiji hall of heian jogakuin st.agnes school(built in 1894 and has been designated as a national important cultural property).
the kamishichiken area
ichijo modori-bashi bridge
nishijin-ori brocade
honbo-ji temple(kyoto prefecture)(the "tomoe-no-niwa garden" beauty spot)
others
post office in charge of collection and delivery in kamigyo ward is as follows:
the nishijin post office:602-xxxx
