naka-gun(kyoto prefecture)
japan/kinki region/kyoto prefecture/naka-gun
list of provinces administered in the past by the ryo-sei,or administrative codes(令制国)/sanindo road/tango province/tanba-gun/naka-gun
naka-gun was a district that existed in tango province and kyoto prefecture.
naka-gun in tango province had been referred to as taniha-gun or tanba-gun until the late medieval period.
this is because naka-gun was believed to have been the center of tanba province, 'tanba-sato,tanba-gun,tanba province,' for the following reasons:tango province was part of tanba province,and tanba-go existed in naka-gun according to the wamyo-sho(a dictionary compiled in the heian period).
naka-gun included the following towns when it was dissolved:
omiya-cho(kyoto prefecture)
mineyama-cho
on april 1,2004,as a result of municipal mergers,omiya-cho and mineyama-cho merged to become kyotango city,and accordingly,naka-gun was dissolved.
naka-gun district office under the gunsei(county system law)was established in mineyama-cho.
history of municipalities in naka-gun
april 1,1889:as a result of the enactment of the chosonsei(town and village system law),ono-mura,chozen-mura,goka-mura,shinzan-mura,tanba-mura,yoshiwara-mura,mineyama-cho,kobe-mura,suki-mura,mie-mura,tsuneyoshi-mura and ikaga-mura were established in naka-gun(one town and eleven villages).
march 5,1892:ono-mura was separated into kuchiono-mura and okuono-mura.
naka-gun was comprised of one town and twelve villages.
april 1,1951:kobe-mura,suki-mura,mie-mura,tsuneyoshi-mura,kuchiono-mura and okuono-mura were merged to form omiya-cho.
naka-gun was comprised of two towns and six villages.
april 13,1953:shinzan-mura absorbed a portion of omiya-cho.
january 1,1955:mineyama-cho,goka-mura,shinzan-mura,tanba-mura and yoshiwara-mura were merged to form mineyama-cho.
naka-gun was comprised of two towns and two villages.
july 1,1956:omiya-cho absorbed ikaga-mura.
naka-gun was comprised of two towns and one village.
september 30,1956:omiya-cho and mineyama-cho absorbed chozen-mura.
naka-gun was comprised of two towns.
april 1,2004:omiya-cho,mineyama-cho,amino-cho in takeno-gun,tango-cho,yasaka-cho and kumihama-cho in kumano-gun were merged to become kyotango city by implementing the shisei(grant of city status);as a result,naka-gun was dissolved.
"go" (unit of the smallest administrative area)in naka-gun,described in the wamyo-sho
ono-go
ninbari-go
tanba-go
suki-go
mie-go
kanbe-go
kuchiki-go(口枳郷)
