sakyo ward
sakyo ward is one of the eleven wards that constitute kyoto city.
summary
it was separated from kamigyo ward in 1929 to become a new ward.
located in the northeast part of kyoto city,sakyo ward borders otsu city of shiga prefecture on the east side,borders higashiyama ward and yamashina ward on the south side across sanjo-dori street and borders nantan city of kyoto prefecture and takashima city of shiga prefecture on the north side.
within the ward,such streets as kawabata-dori street,higashi oji-dori street and shirakawa-dori street run in the north-south direction.
the southern part of the ward is mostly occupied by housing areas and school zones(however,in the northern area of the part,such as iwakura area,fields still remain because large-scale development,such as constructing a high-rise building,is restricted due to the designation as an urbanization-restricted area),and its northern part is mountainous and the forest industry flourishes there.
famous temples and shrines,such as ginkaku-ji temple,nanzen-ji temple,shimogamo-jinja shrine and heian-jingu shrine,are located in this ward.
in the northern part of the ward,kurama-dera temple,kifune-jinja shrine,sanzen-in temple,the site where tomomi iwakura was once confined,and shugakuin rikyu(shugakuin imperial villa)are also located.
in the past,women called "oharame" sometimes came from yase ohara to this area to sell wild vegetables they collected in the mountain area.
shirakawame,who were specifically engaged in peddling flowers,existed in kita shirakawa,but it is likely that they do not exist anymore.
in the mountainous area of kita shirakawa,a specialty called shirakawa-suna sand exists.
sakyo and sakyo ward
sakyo indicates the left side of gosho(the imperial palace)where the emperor lives.
since the emperor sat in the imperial seat facing the south,the left in fact indicates the east side.
therefore,the area is called sakyo,although it is located on the right side on maps.
originally,sakyo indicated the east side area of heian-kyo capital(rakuyo or rakuchu),but the sakyo ward,which was born as an administrative area of kyoto city,is located in the rakuto(rakugai)area on the left side of the kamo-gawa river(yodo-gawa river system).
due to reorganization of cities,towns and villages,the area of this ward has become considerably large,centered on former otagi-gun which was located remotely(until ukyo ward merged former keihoku-cho,sakyo ward occupied the largest land area among all the eleven wards of kyoto city).
geography
rivers
kamo-gawa river(賀茂川(加茂川))
kamo-gawa river(鴨川)(yodo-gawa river system)
takano-gawa river(kyoto prefecture)
shira-kawa river
the lake biwa canal
transportation
sakyo ward is placed at the gateway to the hokuriku region from kyoto.
from ancient times,many routes for transporting marine products to kyoto,called saba kaido(mackerel roads),existed.
even now,national route 367 is a trunk road between kyoto and fukui.
railroads
keihan oto line of keihan electric railway
demachiyanagi station-(keihan)marutamachi station＝>(to yodoyabashi station)
eizan main line of eizan electric railway
demachiyanagi station-mototanaka station-chayama station(kyoto prefecture)-ichijoji station-shugakuin station-takaragaike station-miyake-hachiman station-yase hieizan-guchi station
kurama line of eizan electric railway
takaragaike station-hachiman-mae station(kyoto prefecture)-iwakura station(kyoto prefecture)-kino station-kyoto-seikadai-mae station-nikenchaya station(kyoto prefecture)-ichihara station-ninose station-kibune-guchi station-kurama station
karasuma line of kyoto municipal subway
kokusaikaikan station-matsugasaki station(kyoto prefecture)-(to/from takeda station(kyoto prefecture))
kosaku line(eizan cable)of keifuku electric railroad
cable yase station-cable hiei station
roads
national route 367
national route 477
ward offices
the sakyo ward office
606-8511,1 yoshida nakaadachi-cho,sakyo ward,kyoto city
tel:075-771-4211(the main switchboard number)
the iwakura branch office
606-0025,403 iwakura nakamachi,sakyo ward,kyoto city
tel:075-781-3898
the yase branch office
601-1252,578 yase akimoto-cho,sakyo ward,kyoto city
tel:075-781-5091
the ohara branch office
601-1242,10-2 ohara raikoin-cho,sakyo ward,kyoto city
tel:075-744-2020
the shizuichi branch office
601-1123,36-3 shizuichi ichihara-cho,sakyo ward,kyoto city
tel:075-741-2002
the hanase branch office
601-1104,196 hanase ofuse-cho,sakyo ward,kyoto city
tel:075-746-0215
the kuta branch office
520-0463,3 kutamiyano-cho,sakyo ward,kyoto city
tel:075-748-2020
education
scenic sites,historic sites
jisho-ji temple(ginkaku-ji temple)
heian-jingu shrine
nanzen-ji temple
yoshida-jinja shrine
kamomioya-jinja shrine
shisen-do temple
manshu-in temple
shugakuin rikyu(shugakuin imperial villa)
sekizan-zenin temple
takaragaike-koen park
kyoto international conference center
jisso-in temple
sanzen-in temple
jakko-in temple
amida-ji temple(sakyo ward,kyoto city)
kurama-dera temple
kifune-jinja shrine
tetsugaku-no-michi street(philosophers' path)
the kyoto botanical garden
garden of fine art,kyoto
okazaki-koen park(kyoto city)
kyoto municipal museum of art
the national museum of modern art,kyoto
the kyoto city zoo
murian-teien garden
eikan-do temple
namikawa cloisonne museum of kyoto
others
the post offices responsible for collection and delivery in sakyo ward are under control of the sakyo post office except those in the kuta area(which is under the control of the katata post office).
zip codes of the sakyo post office:606-xxxx,601-11xx and 601-12xx
zip codes of the katata post office(otsu city,shiga prefecture):520-02xx,520-03xx,520-04xx and 520-05xx
