karyaku no sodo(a rebellion in the karyaku era)
"karyaku no sodo" (karyaku rebellion)refers to a conflict in 1326,towards the end of the kamakura period,between nagasaki takasuke,a minister to the tokuso family and the adachi clan,whose head was a maternal relative of the tokuso family over inheriting the head post of the tokuso family within the hojo clan,which was regent to the kamakura bakufu shogunate.
on april 24,1326,takatoki hojo,the 14th shikken(regent to the shogun)became a priest due to illness at the age of 24.
nagasaki takasuke,uchikanrei(head of tokuso family)recommended kunitoki hojo,takatoki's eldest son born in december the previous year and whose mother was troika no mae,a sister of muneshige godaiin,who was also a retainer of the tokuso family as the next head of the tokuso family,and he also recommended sadaaki hojo,head of the branch hojo clan as a temporary 15th shikken(regent to the shogun)until kunitoki became able to inherit the regency.
with his aunt having married godaiin,sadaaki was a relative of the tokuso family.
as takatoki became a priest,on five occasions sadaaki also asked if he could become one,but was persuaded not to do so by nagasaki.
takatoki's legal wife was tokiaki adachi's daughter,and adachi,being a maternal relative of the tokuso family,showed displeasure even at the birth of kunitoki(whose mother was a retainer of the tokuso family),and neither kakukai enjo,takatoki's mother,nor anybody from the adachi clan made an appearance either at the birth or in front of takatoki.
to prevent kunitoki from inheriting the head post of the tokuso family,the adachi clan recommended yasuie hojo,takatoki's younger brother and son of okatadono(kakukai enjo),as the successor to takatoki.
on the morning of april 27,a messenger of nagasaki visited sadaaki to announce that he had been appointed to the shikken post.
sadaaki,pleased by the news,duly attended hyojo(conferences in the bakufu).
however,on the same day,yasuie became a priest saying that such a situation was a disgrace for him.
many people did the same thing as yasuie,showing that a lot of people were dissatisfied with the decision to appoint sadaaki to the shikken post.
it was rumored that an angry yasuie and okata(his mother)contemplated an attempt on sadaaki's life,and forced into a corner,sadaaki resigned his position as the 15th regent to the shogun on may 7,to become a priest.
his regency lasted for little more than 10 days.
while no person in the hojo clan wanted to take up the regency,fearing the wrath of yasuie and the adachi clan,moritoki hojo,the chief of hikitsukeshu(coadjustors of the high court),was at last appointed to the post on june 3,becoming the last shikken of the hojo clan.
koresada hojo was appointed rensho(assistant to regents).
it was decided that shikken moritoki should help kunitoki,takatoki's legitimate son,and in accordance with the precedent,kunitoki paid a visit to hachiman-gu shrine when he was five to be inaugurated head of the tokuso family.
the successor to the position of head of the tokuso family became a relative of a retainer of the tokuso family,creating the situation wherein the hojo clan became engulfed by retainers of the tokuso family.
around the same time,in the imperial court in heian-kyo capital as well,the struggle between daikakuji-to(imperial lineage starting with emperor kameyama)and jimyoin-to(imperial lineage starting with emperor fukakusa)to succeed the emperor had become serious.
therefore,the internal strife in the hojo clan made the political situation increasingly confusing,leading to the demise of the kamakura bakufu in june,1333.
