japanese military history
japanese military history is characterized by the long feudal battles inside the nation and the overseas expedition during the age of imperialism.
japan experienced an all-out war in the second world war in which its army and navy suffered disastrous damages,and japan proper was occupied by the u.s.army.
after that,it altered its national policy and banned the use of force against other nations.
major wars in which japan was involved
before the establishment of the japanese army
ancient times(exclusive of wars appeared in the japanese mythology and civil wars)
battles relating to the korean peninsula
in 391,in 399(gwanggaeto stele)
battle of hakusukinoe
in 663
medieval period(excluive of civil wars)
invasion by silla.
it was conducted intermittently during the period from the eighth century to the middle of the 11th century.
invasion by toi
in 1019
mongol invasion led by kublai
bunei war:1274,koan war:1281.
foreign invasion in the oei era
in 1419.
early-modern times
the bunroku-keicho war
it was the dispatch of troops to korea at the behest of hideyoshi toyotomi.
the bunroku campaign:in 1592,the keicho campaign:in 1597.
the history of okinawa prefecture:the invasion by the satsuma domain
in 1609.
boshin war(battle of ueno,battle of hakodate,aizu war)
after the establishment of the japanese army
wars fought by imperial japanese army
boshin war
seinan war(the last civil war in japan)
the taiwan expedition
sino-japanese war
russo-japanese war
first world war
dispatch of troops to siberia
manchurian incident(foundation of manchukuo)
sino-japanese war
rokokyo bridge incident(the marco polo bridge incident)
national general mobilization act
pacific war
the war front of pacific region in the second world war
attack on pearl harbor
the naval battle off malaya
the naval battle off ceylon
imphal campaign
the battle of the coral sea
the battle of midway island
the battle of the solomon sea
the battle of guadalcanal
the battle of the philippine sea
the battle of peleliu
the battle of leyte gulf(the battle of attu island)
the battle of iwo jima
the battle of okinawa
great tokyo air raids,great osaka air raids
dropping of atomic bombs on hiroshima city and nagasaki city
the world's first use of nuclear weapons in the actual fight.
the potsdam declaration
japan accepted it through the broadcast of emperor hirohito.
soviet union's entry into the war
south sakhalin,kurile islands,habomai islands and shikotan island are still under occupation at present.
detention in siberia
the post-war rule by the general headquarter of the allied forces.
tokyo tribunal of war criminals
after the second world war
self-defense forces
refer to japan's military affairs.
