shinano genji(minamoto clan)
shinano genji is a name given to the minamoto clan who were native to and based in shinano province during the medieval period.
it consists of the following family lines.
minamoto no mitsuyoshi line of seiwa-genji(minamoto clan).
this family line was founded by minamoto no mitsuyoshi,the fifth younger brother of minamoto no mitsunaka(tada no manju),which was based in shinano province.
descendants of minamoto no tametomo,a great-grandchild of mitsuyoshi,branched into中津乗氏,the ina clan,the murakami clan,the yoda clan,the katagiri clan,and the tsutsumi clan.
they wielded power in minamishinano.
in the kamakura period,chikahira izumi,a member of the ina clan,was renowned.
some people believe that the suwa clan,who took over the position of ohori(the highest rank of the saints in shinto)at suwa-taisha shrine for generations,was a family of the yoda clan.
minamoto no yorikiyo line of seiwa-genji(minamoto clan).
this family line was founded by minamoto no yorikiyo,the second son of minamoto no yorinobu,which was based in shinano province.
the shinano-murakami clan(murakami-clan in shinano province)was renowned.
minamoto no yorisue line of seiwa-genji(minamoto clan).
this family line was founded by minamoto no yorisue,the third son of minamoto no yorinobu,and was based in shinano province.
the descendants formed the inoue clan who wielded power in shinano province.
minamoto no yoshimitsu line of seiwa-genji(minamoto clan).
this is a family of kai-genji(minamoto clan),a branch family of the kawachi-genji(minamoto clan)founded by minamoto no yoshimitsu(shinra-saburoyoshimitsu).
the ogasawara and hiraga clans were renowned.
minamoto no yoshitaka line of seiwa-genji(minamoto clan).
this family line was founded by minamoto no yoritaka,a grandson of minamoto no yoshiie(hachimantaro yoshiie),and was based in shinano province.
the wakatsuki and tago clans were renowned.
minamoto no tameyoshi line of seiwa-genji(minamoto clan).
this is a family of kawachi-genji(minamoto clan)founded by minamoto no yoshinaka(kiso-jiro yoshinaka).
minamoto no yoshikata,a son of minamoto no tameyoshi who was a member of kawachi-genji(minamoto clan),was killed by his own nephew,minamoto no yoshihira.
minamoto no yoshinaka(yoshinaka kiso),a son of yoshikata,was fostered by nakahara no kaneto,a local ruling family based in kisodani,shinano province.
the family line dates back to the time when minamoto no yoshinaka(yoshinaka kiso)wielded control over kisodani,shinano province.
renowned clans of this line include the kiso clan who claimed to be descendants of yoshinaka.
