chugushiki
chugushiki was the office which belonged to nakatsukasasho(ministry of central affairs)and was in charge of the consort's household affairs under the ritsuryo system(a system of centralized government based on the ritsuryo code).
it was originally in charge of the affairs of all consorts' households,but later taikotaigogushiki,kotaigogushiki and kogogushiki were separately established for grand empress dowager,empress dowager and empress respectively(ritsuryo system).
organization
the followings are written in descending order.
chugu daibu(master of the consort's household office):one person.
court rank:jushiinoge(junior fourth rank,lower grade).
chugu gon no daibu(provisional master of the consort's household office):one person.
court rank:jushiinoge(junior fourth rank,lower grade).
chugu no suke(assistant master of the consort's household office):one person.
court rank:jugoinoge(junior fifth rank,lower grade).
chugu gon no suke(provisional assistant master of the consort's household office):one person.
court rank:jugoinoge(junior fifth rank,lower grade).
chugu taijo(or "taishin")(senior secretary of the consort's household office):one person.
court rank:jurokui(junior sixth rank).
(it seems that chugu gon no taijo(or gon no taishin)also existed because yorisada tada,a close aid of the emperor godaigo,was appointed as kotaigogu gon no taijo.his court rank was jurokui.)
chugu shojo(or "shoshin")(junior secretary of the consort's household office):two persons.
court rank:jurokui.
chugu gon no shojo(or "gon no shoshin")(provisional junior secretary of the consort's household office):one person.
court rank:jurokui.
chugu daisakan(or "taisakan")(senior clerk of the consort's household office):one person.
court rank:shohachiinoge(senior eighth rank,lower grade).
chugu shosakan(junior clerk of the consort's household office):two persons.
court rank:juhachiinojo(junior eighth rank,upper grade).
under shosakan,there were lower class employees called shisho,shikisho,shibu and jikicho,security officers called samurai no osa and samurai,and female employees called 'nyoju' (a court lady in a lower rank).
shikisho,samurai no osa and samura were ryoge no kan(posts outside of the ritsuryo system)created in the middle of the heian period.
