yamashiro no kuni no miyatsuko
yamashiro no kuni no miyatsuko(also known as yamashiro kokuzo,written as山背国造or山代国造)was a kuninomiyatsuko(provincial governor)who ruled the south-west part of yamashiro province.
however,yamashiro no kuni no miyatsuko written as山城国造seems to have caused confusion years later.
summary
ancestors
a descendant of amatsuhikone-no-mikoto or ikishiniho-no-mikoto.
if the kuninomiyatsuko was a descendant of amatsuhikone-no-mikoto,they belong to the same line of the oshikochi clan,who held the position of oshikochi no kuni no miyatsuko.
it is said that atane-no-mikoto and sonofuri-no-mikoto were appointed as yamashiro no kuni no miyatsuko during the emperor jinmu's era and the emperor seimu's era respectively,appointment in the emperor jinmu's era is questionable.
uji-kabane(clan)
the uji was yamashiro(the yamashiro clan).
later,the uji was changed to yama(the yama clan).
the kabane(hereditary title)was atae.
promoted to muraji in 683,and to imiki in 685.
some members were granted the rank of sukune in 833.
the clan has branch lines such as immigrant clans that derived from king bailong of lu,and other lines that derived from hoakari.
base
yamashiro province(originally written as山背国).
it was located in the present-day southern part of kyoto prefecture.
one theory has it that yamashiro no kuni no miyatsuko(山代国造)in the northern part and yamashiro no kuni no miyatsuko(山背国造)in the southern part coexisted.
the yama clan lived in ina-go,kawabe county in settsu province.
ujigami(a guardian god or spirit of a particular place in the shinto religion)
unknown.
shrines in yamashiro province that enshrine amatsuhikone-no-mikoto include ogura-jinja shrine(oyamazaki machi,kyoto prefecture)and hosono-jinja shrine(seika-cho,kyoto prefecture),the latter of which was founded in the nara period.
descendants
neko yamashiro:a legendary figure who lived in the kofun period(tumulus period).
the ancestor of the yama clan.
he was the father of hayama-hime,who established hirota-jinja shrine under the order of the empress jingu,and nagahime(長媛),who established nagata-jinja shrine.
