nishukin
nishukin is a kind of gold coin distributed in the edo period.
it is also called nishuban.
summary
it was rectangular strip shape.
on the surface,gosan no kiri mon(paulownia patterns)was engraved in a fan-shaped frame at the top and a word 'nishu' was engraved at the bottom.
a signature of 'koji' and kao(written seal mark)were engraved on the back side.
also on genroku nishukin which was casted for the first time,year seal 'gen' was engraved at the upper right portion of the back side showing the casting period.
it was 2 shu at face value.
the currency value was equivalent to 1/8 ryo or 1/2 bu.
both isshukin and nibukin included less gold par one ryo compared to koban and ichibuban and used as subsidiary currencies.
in 1697 it was issued for the first time and stopped the distribution due to the issue of hoei koban in 1710 and after that in 1832 tenpo nishukin was issued and in 1860 manen nishukin was issued.
manen nishukin was changed as meiji nishukin and casted until 1869.
genroku nishuban
genroku nishuban was same karat as genroku koban and had 1/8 ryome(a weighed value)and was positioned as standard gold coin.
in the period of keicho koban(a type of gold coin used in the keicho era),the ichi mon(a currency unit of the edo period)coin was the only type of kanei tsuho(old copper coin)that was worth less than the ichibuban(ichibu was equivalent to 1 kan mon(1,000 mon)according to the official quotation).
the lack of a coin with a value somewhere between that of high-value coins and low-value coins was tremendously inconvenient.
given this,the introduction of the 'nishu,' which had a value somewhere in-between,was well received.
however,bakufu took a measure to allow only genrokukin at currency conversion to nishukin to encourage collection of keicho koban.
tenpo nishuban
tenpo nishuban was casted from september 26,1832 and issued from november 16 of the same year before the issue of tenpo koban tenpo chogin and belonged to the line of bunsei koban bunsei chogin having 1/8 ryome of shinmoji koban(bunsei koban)and 48%less karat to earn profit by recasting.
the issued amount was very high surpassing standard gold coins like koban.
the edo bakufu made a profit of 1,018,30 ryo by reminting the coin.
it was distributed relatively long until july,1866.
manen nishukin
manen nishuban had the same karat as nibukin manen nibuban issued on may 30,1860 and the ryome was 1/4 and was positioned as standard coin taking initiative with manen nibuban in effect.
as manen nibuban,it was casted with less purity of gold than manen koban to earn profit by recasting.
the small and thin coin was inconvenient and not casted in large quantity.
the distribution was stopped at the end of september,1874 at discontinuation of old gold and silver.
