keizu sanyo(edo period pedigree charts)
keizu sanyo(edo period pedigree charts)is a collection of pedigree charts compiled in the late edo period.
it comes in 102 volumes(103 books).
the author is considered to be tadahiko iida who wrote "dai nihon yashi" (unofficial history of japan).
he compiled and edited various existing pedigree records and other documents,and the publication is considered a highly valuable historical source.
summary
when compiling "dainihonshi" (great history of japan),mito domain gathered information from around the country,including pedigree records.
these pedigree records were collected into "shoka keizusan" (the genealogies of the various families).
many pedigree records have different traditions and there are several versions of family trees.
"keizu sanyo" (edo period pedigree charts)was compiled to solve this problem.
"sonpibunmyaku",a classic genealogy,was reedited according to "shoka keizusan" (the genealogies of the various families),existing family trees,literature,local reports and records,such as "kansei choshu shokafu" (genealogies of vassals in edo bakufu), "hankanpu" (genealogy of the protectors of the shogunate), "record of family trees", "jigekaden" (a record of family trees of jige,lower rank court officials,written by kagefumi mikami),were studied and referenced,and pedigree charts were compiled by family and clan,such as miyake(house of an imperial prince),fujiwara clan,sugawara clan,ki clan,taira clan,and various minamoto clans.
daimyo(japanese feudal lords),main shogun's retainers,court nobles and shake(family of shinto priests serving a shrine on a hereditary basis)were covered and pedigree records were extended to the end of edo period.
the precise year in which it was compiled is unknown,but since the earliest date is 1856 and the presumed author iida died in 1860,it is considered that it was completed during this period.
an outline is provided first and then details are given.
a major feature is that differing theories are shown in family trees and differences between traditions of pedigree records are shown for future reference.
since it is a valued historical document that contains family trees from after the kansei era and covers a wide range of materials,it can be said to be a "sonpibunmyaku" of the late edo period.
since it was designed to be faithful to originals,existing pedigree records were used as they were,and there is a problem that some families were intentionally linked to famous families and such errors were not corrected.
the original book is stored in the cabinet library and a copy is retained in the historiographical institute at the university of tokyo.
it is unknown whether these two books are correct because there are several alternative versions.
