russo-japanese agreement
the russo-japanese agreement is the agreement in which japan and the russian empire agreed upon mutual interests ranging over 4 times after the russo-japanese war.
in its confidential clauses,japan recognized russian interests in outer mongolia and russia recognized japanese interests in korea.
but japan came to face a crisis over her interests in china when the russian empire fell due to the russian revolution in 1917 and the agreement was cancelled by the soviet union government.
the first russo-japanese agreement
the first russo-japanese agreement was signed on july 30,1907.
while they stated in its public agreement that they would respect treaties between japan and the russian empire as well as those between the both countries and qing,together with the realization of the independence of qing,open-door policy,equal opportunity,and the like,they agreed upon respective range of japanese interests in the south manchuria and russian interests in the north manchuria in its confidential agreement.
they also recognized mutually russian special interests in the outer mongolia and japanese special interests in korea(the korean empire).
the second russo-japanese agreement
the second russo-japanese agreement was signed on july 4,1910.
they made sure that they would secure their interests in manchuria through making an agreement to deny the proposal of having the south manchuria railways stand neutral by the united states of america(knox's proposal).
the third russo-japanese agreement
the third russo-japanese agreement was signed on july 8,1912.
in order to cope with shingaikakumei(the chinese revolution),they agreed each other to split the inner mongolia,the west part of which for russia and the east for japan.
the fourth russo-japanese agreement
the fourth russo-japanese agreement was signed on july 3,1916.
they reassured each other that they should enforce the relationship between japan and russia at the first world war,stop the third party from controlling china,and protect the both countries' special interests in the far east.
