yamato no kuni no miyatsuko
yamato no kuni no miyatsuko(also called 'yamato kokuzo')was a kuni no miyatsuko(the head of a local government)who ruled over the center of yamato province.
also written as "大倭国造".
later written as "大和国造".
summary
ancestors
uzuhiko
he made his name during the eastern expedition of the emperor jinmu,and he was appointed as the yamato no kuni no miyatsuko for the first time in 658 b.c.
clan
the clan was yamato.
as the kanji for the name of the country was changed,the kanji for the name of the clan was also changed(大倭,大養徳,大和and so on[all of them were called 'yamato']).
although his surname was atai,yamato no tatsumaro's surname became muraji in 681,the surname of the entire clan became muraji in 683 and became imiki in 685,and yamato no nagaoka and mizumori were promoted to sukune in the nara period.
it should be noted that kazuuji descended from muryeong-wang,king of baekje,therefore it was a different lineage.
home base
yamato clan was located in yamato village,shiki no shimo no kori county,yamato province.
the current location is in tenri city,nara prefecture.
it is said that the yamato clan ruled over shiki and tochi regions(the eastern part of nara basin)in the sixth and seventh century.
ujigami(a guardian god or spirit of a particular place in the shinto religion)
it was yamato nimasu okunitama-jinja shrine.
in other words,it was oyamato-jinja shrine.
in the emperor suinins's era,ichishi no nagaochi founded the shrine by worshipping yamato no okuni tama no kami.
descendants
yamato no agoko:he was a legendary person in the kofun period(tumulus period).
he was the kuni no miyatsuko from the emperor nintoku's era to the emperor yuryaku's era.
he had almost been killed by emperor richu because he got himself involved in the imperial succession conflict,however,he was saved by presenting his younger sister,hinohime,as uneme(ancient court hostess).
after that,it became a custom for the yamato clan to present an uneme to the family of okimi(great king).
yamato no tehiko:he was a shogun in the kofun period.
he was the kuni no miyatsuko in the emperor kinmei's era.
he made his name in the war against silla.
yamato no nagaoka:he was a law scholar in the nara period.
he was the son of yamato no kuni no miyatsuko iotari.
he was involved in the adoption of "yoro ritsuryo code"(code promulgated in the yoro period).
