the shingu clan
the shingu clan is one of the clans in japan.
the shingu clan(mutsu province)
the shingu clan ruled shingu-sho,yama-gun(present-day kitakata city,fukushima prefecture),mutsu province(later iwashiro no kuni)from the kamakura period to the early part of the muromachi period.
the shingu's real family name is heishi(taira clan).
the clan was descended from tokitsura shingu,the sixth son of moritsura,son of yoshitsura sahara.
tokitsura had five elder brothers,among whom the eldest brother tsunetsura inawashiro originated the inawashiro clan;the second elder brother,hiromori originated the kitada clan;the third elder brother,moriyoshi,originated the kanakami clan;the fourth elder brother,mitsumori ashina,originated the ashina clan;and the fifth elder brother,moritoki,originated the kano clan;their descendants divided the aizu region and ruled the area.
the shingu clan built shingu-jo castle(mutsu province)and resided there,and had deep faith in shingu kumano-jinja shrine and donated large amounts.
in the muromachi period,the shingu clan began to fight with the ashina clan,which was of the same clan.
the shingu clan destroyed the kano clan in 1402,aligned with kitada kazusanosuke of the same family,the lord of kitada-jo castle,and fought against the ashina clan,but in 1409 the kitada clan was destroyed by the ashina clan.
even after that,they fought back and forth at each other,but in 1420 morimasa ashina conquered shingu-jo castle(mutsu province)and moritoshi shingu,the lord of the castle,was killed in battle and the remainders(of the defeated party)escaped to echigo.
in 1433,the remainders of the shingu clan attacked tsugawa-jo castle,ogawa-no-sho,echigo province,but they were beaten back by the kanakami clan,jodai(the keeper of castle),and consequently went to ruin.
the record asserting that the productiveness in aizu increased after the fall of the shingu clan was found in "todera-hachimangu nagacho(record)of the kokoroshimizu-hachimanjinja shrine," which reflected the fact that the aizu basin had been devastated due to fights between the shingu and ashina clans.
the shingu clan(kii province)
the shingu clan,a family of seiwa-genji(minamoto clan),was descended from minamoto no yukiie(juro shingu),son of minamoto no tameyoshi.
yukiie played an active role in passing on to all genji people in the country prince mochihito's order to hunt down and kill the heike family and raise an army against the heike clan during the jisho-juei war,but after the fall of the heike clan he entered a conflict with his nephew,minamoto no yoritomo,as a result of which he was defeated and killed.
families that had the shingu family name in the shingu district of ki province ruled the area from the period of the northern and southern courts(japan)to the sengoku(warring states)period.
this family is said to have descended from yukiie or the family of kumano betto(the title of an official who administered the shrines at kumano).
in the generation of yukihide shingu,they were defeated in struggles with the horinouchi clan(shingu horinouchi family);subsequently the horinouchi clan ruled the shingu clan,but a son of ujiyoshi horinouchi used the shingu family name and gave himself the name yukitomo shingu.
yukitomo fought on the side of the western force in the battle of sekigahara but was defeated and punished by being deprived of samurai rank and properties,and the rule by the shingu clan ended.
