uda-matsuyama domain
the uda-matsuyama domain was a domain which existed in yamato province.
the jinya(a regional government office)was placed in matsuyama(ouda ward,uda city,nara prefecture)as a government building of domain.
history of the domain
the original forefather of the uda-matsuyama domain was nobunaga oda,the well-known daimyo(japanese feudal lord)in the sengoku period(the warring states period)(japan).
after nobunaga was killed at the honnoji incident in 1582,oda clan split into two groups(one is of nobukatsu oda,the second son,another is nobutaka oda,the third son).
in 1583 after nobutaka was forced to commit suicide with his sword by an order from hideyoshi toyotomi,the nobukatsu group took the initiative in oda clan.
but after the battle of komaki and nagakute,the clan's power of influence plunged downward on the front stage of the world due to nobukatsu's incapability.
after the conquest and siege of odawara,due to his refusal to change the territory from owari province to suruga province,nobukatsu's territory was confiscated,then he was exiled to shimotsuke province.
when he accepted the deportation,nobukatsu called himself joshin.
in 1600,since nobukatsu took the side of toyotomi at the battle of sekigahara,his territory was confiscated after the battle.
but with the reason he was a son of nobunaga,nobukatsu was given 50,000 koku in total in yamato province and kozuke province.
he was also given the rank of kokushu(kokushu daimyo,a rank of territorial lord in edo period)in yamato province.
during this time,with the meritorious deed at the battle of sekigahara,takaharu fukushima moved in from nagashima,ise province with the added crop yields approximately 30,000 koku as the local lord instead of nobukatsu.
but takaharu was punished by being deprived of his rank or fief due to the suspicion of secret communication with toyotomi clan in the summer siege of osaka in 1615,and nobukatsu reentered yamato province and kozuke province.
after nobukatsu gave his territory in kozuke province to his forth son nobuyoshi oda,he began to rule yamato province which produced 28,000 koku.
in 1630 after the death of nobukatsu,the sixth son,takanaga oda took over as head of the family.
subsequently,takanaga was succeeded by nagayori oda,who was then succeeded by nobutake oda.
however,nobutake committed suicide(uda disturbance)due to the disorders within the domain
although the succession to family headship to nobuyasu oda(the son of nobutake)was admitted because of the highly respected blood line of nobunaga,oda clan was forced to reduce their territory crop to 20,000 koku and change their territory to kaibara domain of tanba province.
their position as the kokushu was deprived at the same time.
the uda-matsuyama domain was abolished as well.
successive lords of the domain
the fukushima family
tozama(non-tokugawa)daimyo:31,717 koku
the oda family
tozama daimyo:28,000 koku
