nuidonoryo
nuidonoryo(bureau of the wardrobe and court ladies)was the office which belonged to nakatsukasasho(ministry of central affairs)and was in charge of personnel affairs of nyokan(court ladies)as well as the supervision of sewing under the japanese ritsuryo system(a system of centralized government based on the ritsuryo code).
history and duties
principal duties of nuidonoryo were the supervision of the production of court dresses and the personnel affairs of nyokan of kokyu(empress's residence).
its predecessor is believed to have been uchikura kinunui no miyatsuko.
uchikura' was the imperial family's storehouse in the era prior to the ritsuryo system and the jobs of kokyu were also closely related to the imperial family.
therefore,it is thought that this organization was the imperial family's household institution rather than the nation's governing institution.
in the nara period,production of clothes was conducted by nui no tsukasa(sewing office)of kokyu.
in the heian period,nuidonoryo absorbed okurasho nuibe no tsukasa,which was based on the okurasho ritsuryo system,in 808 and began the production of clothes.
the predecessor of nuibe no tsukasa was okura no kinunui no miyatsuko,and its main duty was the production of officials' clothes.
therefore,nuidonoryo began to produce officials' clothes as well and it gradually lost the nature of household institution.
in the late 11th century,ofukudokoro,an institution in charge of the production of the emperor's clothes,was established at the residence of the head of kuraryo(bureau of palace storehouses).
further,similar ofukudokoro was established at the residence of court nobles and retired emperors,and nuidonoryo became almost nominal.
itodokoro
in the late ninth century,itodokoro was established as the betsudokoro(branch office)of nuidonoryo.
the duty of itodokoro was spinning thread and many nyokan worked there.
personnel
nuidonoryo
kami(director)(corresponding to jugoinoge[junior fifth rank,lower grade]):one person
suke(deputy director)(corresponding to jurokui[junior sixth grade]):one person
jo(secretary)(corresponding to jushichiinojo[junior seventh rank,upper grade]):one person
jo was later divided into daijo and shojo.
daisakan(senior clerk)(corresponding to juhachiinoge[junior eighth rank,lower grade]):one person
shosakan(junior clerk)(corresponding to daihatsuinojo[greater initial rank,upper grade]):one person
kanjin zonin(lower-ranking government officials):newly established
ryosho(administrative officials):newly established
shibu(low rank buraucrats)
jikicho(factotum)
someshi(a dyer):newly established;abolished in 808
nuibe(a needle-woman):transferred from nuibe no tsukasa
somete(an assistant dyer):transferred from nuibe no tsukasa
itodokoro
azukari:one person
kanjindai:one person
nyoju(a court lady in a lower rank)
toji
