kuragaki no sho
kuragaki no sho was a manor in imizu-gun,ecchu province that existed from the late heian period to the sengoku period(period of warring states).
the manor was located in what is now the eastern part of imizu city,including the ebie,horioka,shiraishi and hibari areas,and the western part of toyama city.
the land extends from the kurokawa area in imizu city to the oida area in toyama city with a total area of 30 square kilometers.
kamomioya-jinja shrine(shimogamo-jinja shrine)was the landlord for the manor.
summary
within the buddhist and shinto ritual performance plan by emperor horikawa,kuragaki no sho was part of the manor donated in 1090 to the kamigamo-sha and shimogamo-sha shrines,each receiving an area of 595 hectares.
kuragaki no sho was originally 29 hectares,which in the muromachi period was worth 750 kilograms in nengu(land tax).
during the bunei era,the costs of building fences and low lattices were imposed on shimogamo-jinja shrine.
as it became the sengoku period,there were a number of disputes involving the manor:one instance involving nagamoto jinbo,who seized kuragaki no sho as the deputy military governor of ecchu province;on another occasion,local governors and manor residents conspired together to delay payment of land taxes made by the villages of hibari and shiraishi that were part of the manor.
the last record on the history of the estate of shimogamo-jinja shrine was made in 1547 describing nagamoto jinbo encouraging people in neighboring provinces to pay local taxes for god.
remains of the management building of the manor have been found at the kamo-jinja shrine(imizu city)(kamochubu,imizu city).
the kamo ruins(imizu city)were excavated right next to the shrine grounds where the remains of residences from the kamakura period have been found.
today,the place-name of kuragaki is hardly ever found in this area.
however,when shimo-mura in imizu-gun was to be merged with imizu city in 2005,there were concerns in the kosugi area that the post-merger address of 'kosugi,imizu city' would be confused with the part of imizu city called kosugi-machi.
as a result,the name of the town was changed to 'kuragaki kosugi,' an old name based on the manor,kuragaki no sho.
