inpu(compilation of seal marks)
an inpu is a kind of books on tenkoku(engraving letters on the material of a seal),that mainly introduces mainly inei(impressions of seals)and inkan(names of authors)for the purpose of appreciation and study.
it includes genkeibon,a book stamped with original seals,keninbon,a book stamped with imitated seals,and reprints of seals stamped by a wood block.
in the early modern times and modern age in china and japan,many of such books were published by literary men and tenkokukas(artists of seal engraving).
it is said that the first inpu is "shukoinkaku" published by yo katsuichi in the taikan era of the northern sung dynasty.
the second inpu is believed to be "senwa inpu" complied by kiso in the senwa era,however,that has not been handed down orally and does not exist today.
sixteen inpu were published from sung(dynasty)through yuan(dynasty),all of which were reprints.
the oldest inpu of genkeibon is "shuko inpu" published by jutoku ko in 1572.
as for the first edition which included 1700 or more impressions of old seals in qin and han,only twenty copies were printed.
one of the copies exists today(one case has five volumes,but one of the volumes is missing.)
in banreki era,jutoku ko,supported by ojo ra,reprinted seals and finally collected nearly 4000 impressions of them.
in the process of additional printings,it took multiple different names such as "顧氏芸閣集古印譜(koshigeikakushuko inpu)"/"顧氏印藪(koshi inso) "/王氏秦漢印統(oshi shinkan into),and so on.
the inpu,overlapping the dawning of tenkoku(seal-engraving),enlightened many seal engravers.
chinese inpu
katsu "inshi" five volumes
程原・程樸"何震印選"
sosen "senshi inryaku" (abbreviation of the sen clan's seal)
kanyo "insho" (record of seal)
choko "gakusando inpu"
ryoko shu "raikodo inpu"
呉式芬/kaiki chin "fudei koryaku"
kaiki chin "jushosanbo inkyo"
keishuku oh "hikodo inpu"
shingyoku ra "金薤留珎"
japanese inpu
"kundaikansochoki-kiji" (book of secrets about zashiki-kazari[decoration of room or study with shoin,which is one of japan's most important residential architectural styles,established in momoyama era])(tang-intsukushi)riemon 1643
"wakan rekidai eshimei inshazu" 1647
seika fujiwara, "kochoshukoinpu" (now defunct)
koshu sakakibara, "芸窗酔銕",1699(now defunct)
kotaku hosoi/kyuko hosoi "kishodo inpu"
doun ikenaga "ittobansho" 1713
fuyo ko摹刻 "kokon koshi inki" 1760
teikan to "koshikoinpu" 1773
sadanobu matsudaira "shukojisshu" inshobu 1800
tadatomo hoida "maijinhakko" inbu 1840
ennen hasegawa "hakuaidoshuko inpu" 1857
