nishoji domain
the nishoji domain refers to a domain which existed in nishoji,gamo county,omi province(present-day hino-cho,gamo county,shiga prefecture).
its another name was the nishioji domain.
the government building of the domain was nishoji jinya(the residence located in nishoji).
the history of the domain
in 1620,nagamasa ichihashi was granted properties in both counties of gamo and yasu in omi province,and in kawachi province which bore 20,000 koku(1 koku was about 180 liter;an old unit showing volume)in total,and as a result,the nishoji domain was established.
since nagamasa distributed properties bearing 2,000 koku to nagayoshi(sanshiro)ichihashi by order of the bakufu(japanese feudal government headed by a shogun)in february 1622,nagamasa's shoryo(territory)reduced to that bearing 18,000 koku.
nagamasa rendered distinguished service as bugyo(magistrate)under iemitsu tokugawa.
when nagamasa died in 1648,his first son,masanobu ichihashi,succeeded to his post.
at this time,masanobu's shoryo was reduced to that bearing 17,000 koku because he distributed properties bearing 1,000 koku to his younger brother,masanao ichihashi.
masanobu rendered distinguished service under ietsuna tokugawa and tsunayoshi tokugawa.
for subsequent lords of the domain,there was nothing worthy of mention except for a matter that the fifth lord of the domain,naotaka ichihashi,was an educated person as recognized by yoshimune tokugawa,the eighth shogun.
nagakazu ichihashi who was the last lord of the domain made efforts in the manufacturing of gunpowder and recommendation of military for the purpose of national defense during unquiet days at the end of the edo period.
since nishoji was renamed to nishioji on may 26,1862,this domain came to be called the nishioji domain thereafter.
nagakazu who was on sabaku-ha(supporters of the shogun)at the beginning gradually leant toward the new government side,and when emperor meiji visited tokyo,he rendered distinguished service in sending off the emperor and in guarding kyoto.
nagakazu became a governor of domain by the return of lands and people to the emperor in 1869,and the nishioji domain was abolished due to haihan-chiken(abolition of feudal domains and establishment of prefectures)two years later.
thereafter,it was incorporated into shiga prefecture via nishioji prefecture and otsu prefecture.
existing building
greater part of the residence of the former feudal domain was reconstructed in 1912 in shokoku-ji temple in kyoto,and is now existing as rinkoin,subtemple of shokoku-ji temple.
kanjobeya(accounting room)in the residence of the former feudal domain was reconstructed in a new location within a town.
it is currently used as a public discussion place at oaza nishioji.
part of the residence of the domain before new construction in 1861 was reconstructed in a new location of shoin(reception room)of seigen-ji temple which was a family temple of the ichihashi family.
it is also handed down to subsequent generations that part of the residence of the domain was reconstructed in a new location of shozai-ji temple at oaza nishioji and houn-ji temple and its components were diverted to such temples.
