ecchu kubo(a government which existed in ecchu)
ecchu kubo was a government which was established at hojozu,imizu county,ecchu province by yoshitane ashikaga who was deposed as the shogun of muromachi bakufu(japanese feudal government headed by a shogun)and escaped from kyoto in 1493.
in those days the name ecchu-gosho palace was also used.
at present,it is sometimes called hojozu government,hojozu bakufu or ecchu bakufu.
history
yoshiki(another name for yoshitane)entered hojozu-jo castle(at nakashinminato,imizu city)of naganobu jinbo,ecchu shugodai(deputy of shugo,provincial constable)after escaping from kyoto.
then he entered the imperial palace which was made by renovating shoko-ji temple.
shoko-ji temple,which became the imperial palace,is considered to mean kosho-ji temple which was at ishimaru(ishimaru,takaoka city)next to hojozu-jo castle and has now moved to hon-machi,imizu city.
yoshiki issued gohan no migyosho(document of shogunate order with the seal of a shogun),gonaisho(official document)and bugyonin hosho(document called administrative directive)by commanding bugyonin(magistrate).
in 1499,the activities in ecchu ended as yoshitada(the new name of yoshiki)moved his address to echizen province.
construction
members who made up the government include the following.
hisanobu hatakeyama,shugo of ecchu province,
yasutaka togashi,shugo of kaga province,
sadazane uesugi,shugo of echigo province,
sadakage asakura(the ninth family head),shugo of echizen province,
court nobles to work for bakufu,namely a certain hino,suetsuna ano,tadaaki matsudono and masayasu asukai,
yonban-shu(the fourth group to guard the bakufu)of bakufu-hoko-shu(the shogunal military guard of the bakufu)including sadayori ise,yoshitaka yoshimi and masachika hatakeyama,
sakyonosuke kano,視元isshiki
however,the members varied according to their returning to kyoto or coming to ecchu resulting from familiar/unfamiliar relationships with the masamoto hosokawa government in kyoto.
the campaign for yoshiki's return to kyoto is considered to have been supported by their own economic base,including bakufu jikishin-dan ryosho(territory under the direct control of bakufu's direct retainers)and iwashimizu hachimangu ryosho(territory under the direct control of iwashimizu hachimangu shrine)which were concentrated near hojozu.
around the same time,the jinbo family also further seized territories in ecchu which were held by temples,shrines,kuge(court nobles),territorial lords and jikishin(direct retainers to the lord)of the bakufu.
heritage and tradition
renga(linked-verse)poets and so on including sogi io came over in consideration of yoshitane ashikaga's stay at hojozu.
waka anthologies were also sent from kugeshu(court nobles)in kyoto.
kenpon chakushoku hokekyo mandala-zu(owned by honpo-ji temple(toyama city),national important cultural property),seiji ukibotanmon koro(owned by ashikura-ji temple issan-kai,the cultural property designated by toyama prefecture)and so on were brought in time for yoshiki's stay and passed down.
oyama-jinja shrine maedate-shadan honden(national important cultural property,repaired in the middle of the muromachi period)is also known to have been repaired by yoshiki.
he is known to have stayed in ogawaji district,uozu city for two months.
the wooden seated statue of tenjin,which was brought by yoshiki,is enshrined in mt.tenjin in the district.
