togubo(crown prince's quarters)
togubo existed in the ritsuryo system(a system of centralized government based on the ritsuryo code)in ancient japan.
official duties
the official duty of togubo was to see domestic economy of the crown prince.
the institution imitated the domestic governing institution of the crown prince,chunfang(the palace of the crown prince)in the tang dynasty.
in the tang dynasty,each institution related with the crown prince was half independent and formed one imperial court and thus togubo was also independent from each authority in the form.
however,in fact,it was put under the strong management of daijokan(grand council of state).
the domestic economy of the crown prince was,in fact,managed by each institution under togubo.
each institution is as follows.
shuzengen(section of food).
shuzogen(section of clothing).
tonerigen(the office of servants of the crown prince).
shumesho(stables office).
shudensho(housekeeping office).
shushosho(documents and medicine office).
shuheisho(division in charge of military and ceremonial weapons).
shukosho(division in charge of carpentry and metal work).
shushosho(division in charge of gluel and drinking water).
gen and sho were special forms of bureaus.
later,crown prince's chamberlain,tachihaki no toneri(guard of the imperial palace)and so on were put.
as a remark,they were not directly related to togu no fu(an official in charge of education of the crown prince)and togugakushi(teacher of the classics of the crown prince).
personnel
daibu(master)(corresponding to jushiinoge[junior forth rank,lower grade])one member.
suke(assistant master)(corresponding to jugoinoge[junior fifth rank,lower grade])one member.
taijo(senior secretary)(corresponding to jurokui[junior sixth rank])one member and shojo(junior secretary)(corresponding to jurokui[junior sixth rank])two members.
daisakan(senior clerk)(corresponding to shohachiinoge[senior eighth rank,lower grade])one member and shosakan(junior clerk)(corresponding to juhachiinojo[junior eighth rank,upper grade])two members.
shisho(a person doing miscellaneous duties about documents)newly established during the heian period.
bosho(assistant officer)newly established during the heian period.
shibu(low rank bureaucrats)
jikicho(factotum)
