koka fifty-three families
koka fifty-three families refers to jizamurai(local samurai)fifty-three families in koka,who stood by rokkaku clan's side in 'siege of magari,' who later became the center families of koga-ryu school ninjutsu(ninja techniques).
the yamanaka family-as the famous persons in the family,there were toshifusa yamanaka,nagatoshi yamanaka,toshiyoshi yamanaka,judaifu yamanaka,toshisada yamanaka and toshimasa yamanaka.
the ban family-as the famous persons in the family,there were choshin ban and gohei ban.
the minobe family.
the kurokawa family-as the famous person in the family,there was yoshiro kurokawa,kurokawa-ryu school.
the tongu family.
the oono family.
the iwamuro family.
the akutagawa family-as the famous persons in the family,there were shichirobe akutagawa and seiemon akutagawa.
the oki family.
the saji family-as the famous person in the family,there was saburo saji.
the jinbo family.
the okawara family.
the ohara family-as the famous person in the family,there was keishun shinoyama.
the wada family-as the famous person in the family,there was koremasa wada.
the ueno family.
the takamine family.
the ikeda family.
the taki family-as the famous persons in the family,there were kazuuji nakamura,kanpachi taki and hida no kami taki.
the ukai family.
the naiki family.
the hattori family.
the koizumi family.
the kuraji family.
the natsumi family-as the famous person in the family,there was kakusuke natsumi.
the sugitani family-as the famous person in the family,there was zenjubo sugitani.
the hari family.
the ogawa family.
the okubo family.
the ueda family.
the noda family.
the iwane family-as the famous persons in the family,there were kanbe iwane and jinzaemon iwane.
the shinjo family.
the aoki family.
the miyajima family.
the sugiyama family.
the katsuragi family.
the mikumo family-as the famous persons in the family,there were narimochi mikumo and narinaga mikumo.
the mochizuki clan,koga mochizuki clan(omi province)-as the famous persons in the family,there were yoshimune mochizuki,hyotayu mochizuki and yoemon mochizuki.
the makimura family.
the yata family.
the takano family.
the kamiyama family.
the takayama family-in one theory,tomoteru takayama and ukon takayama came from this takayama family.
the morita family.
the saga family.
the torii family.
the hirako family.
the tarao family-as the famous person in the family,there was mitsutoshi(mitsuhiro)tarao.
the tsuchiyama family.
the yamagami family.
the aeba family-as the famous person in the family,there was kawachi no kami(aeba clan)aeba.
the nagano family.
the nakayama family.
