tonjutsu
tonjutsu is a technique of ninjutsu to hide or escape from enemies.
it is also called goton sanju-ho,which consisted of thirty techniques of tenton ju-ho,chiton ju-ho,and jinton ju-ho in all.
tenton ju-ho
a way of escape making use of weather.
for the effective use,ninja trains to be able to foresee the later weather from the present look of sky.
nichiton-making use of the sun.
(e.g.)dazzle the enemy's eyes by standing with the sun at back.
getsuton-making use of the moon.
(e.g.)escape in the darkness where the moon is hidden behind clouds.
seiton-making use of stars.
unton-making use of clouds.
muton-making use of fog.
(e.g.)advance while the field of vision is bad due to dense fog.
raiton-making use of thunder.
(e.g.)foresee thunder clouds and reconnoiter under cover of thunder.
denton-making use of electricity.
(e.g.)escape while enemies flinch from static electricity.
futon-making use of wind.
uton-making used of rain.
(e.g.)escape as soon as the field of vision becomes bad by the sudden evening shower.
setsuton-making use of snow.
(e.g.)escape in the snowstorm in outfit for cold weather prepared in advance.
chiton ju-ho
a way to escape making use of things or topography.
mokuton-making use of trees.
(e.g.)push down leaning lumbers.
soton-making use of grass.
(e.g.)trap enemy's foot with tied grass to fall dawn.
katon-making use of fire.
(e.g.)make a fire.
enton-making use of smoke.
(e.g.)make a smoky screen emerge.
doton-making use of earth.
(e.g.)throw earth at enemies.
okuton-making use of a building.
(e.g.)escape under the floor.
kinton-making use of hardware.
sekiton-making use of stone.
(e.g.)throw a stone at enemies.
suiton-making use of water.
(e.g.)distract enemies' attention by tapping sound of water.
toton-making use of boiled water.
(e.g.)throw some boiled water at enemies.
jinton ju-ho
a way to escape making use of human beings or animals.
danton-making use of a male.
joton-making use of a female.
roton-making use of an old person.
(e.g.)disguise.
yoton-making use of a child.
(e.g.)using a child as decoy.
kiton-making use of a high-ranking person.
senton-making use of a low-ranking person.
kinton-making use of a bird.
(e.g.)using a hawk as decoy.
juton-making use of animals
(e.g.)having a horse rage to cause a mess.
chuton-making use of insects,reptiles,and amphibians.
(e.g.)throwing a snake.
gyoton-making use of fish.
supplementation
although some particular depiction is used for the scene where an enemy is given a damage in the fight in a lot of visual entertainments such as comics or games(such as katon＝blowing out fire from mouth),it is nothing but a technique to escape by blocking enemy's action,and it can never be an action for the purpose of attacking enemy.
