takatsuki domain
takatsuki domain is one of the domains which existed in settsu province.
the government building of domain was takatsuki-jo castle(takatsuki city,osaka prefecture).
summary
takatsuki was governed by ukon takayama who served nobunaga oda and hideyoshi toyotomi in the sengoku period(japan),and who also was well-known for a christian daimyo(christian feudal lord).
ukon was removed from his rank of daimyo by the edict expelling christian missionaries,afterward,naoyori shinjo entered takatsuki with 30,000 koku,but he was forced to change his rank in the battle of sekigahara in 1600,and he was handed over to hideyuki gamo(palace staff).
in 1615,nobumasa naito entered with 40,000 koku from nagahama domain,omi province to establish the takatsuki domain.
nobumasa renovated takatsuki-jo castle and constructed honmaru and ninomaru.
it became fushimi-jo castle,yamashiro province in 1617.
sadayoshi toki entered with 20,000 koku from moriya city,shimousa province,but died in 1619.
his child,yoriyuki toki,was still so young,so was forced to return to moriya city,shimousa province with 10,000 koku,a diminished territory.
ienobu matsudaira entered with 20,000 koku from katahara,mikawa province,but transferred to sakura domain,shimousa.
nobukatsu okabe entered with 51,000 koku from tatsuno domain,harima province,but was transferred to kishiwada domain,izumi province in 1640.
yasunobu matsudaira,the second son of ienobu,entered with 36,000 koku from sakura domain,shimousa,but transferred to sasayama domain,tanba province in 1649,thus,the domain lord successively changed in short term,which also caused the successive replacement of the family of lord of the domain.
after that,the entrance of naokiyo nagai with 36,000 koku from nagaoka domain,yamashiro province finally brought a settlement to the domain lord,afterward,meiji period came during the 13th nagai clan's governance.
it turned to be takatsuki prefecture in 1871 by haihan-chiken(abolition of feudal domains and establishment of prefectures),and it was later incorporated into osaka prefecture.
successive lords of the domain
the naito family(lineage of nobunari)
fudai daimyo with 40,000 koku(1615-1617)
nobumasa naito(jugoinoge,kii no kami),the oldest son of nobunari naito.
the toki clan
fudai with 20,000 koku(1617-1619)
sadayoshi toki(jugoinoge,yamashiro no kami),the second son of sadamasa toki.
yoriyuki toki(jugoinoge,yamashiro no kami),the oldest son of sadayoshi toki.
matsudaira clan(the katahara family)
fudai with 20,000 koku(1619-1635)
ienobu matsudaira(jushiinoge,kii no kami),the oldest son of ietada matsudaira.
the okabe clan(the southern house of the fujiwara clan)
fudai with 50,000 koku(1635-1640)
nobukatsu okabe(jugoinoge,mino no kami),the oldest son of nagamori okabe.
the matsudaira family(the katahara family)
fudai with 36,000 koku(1640-1649)
yasunobu matsudaira(jushiinoge,wakasa no kami),the second son of ienobu matsudaira.
the nagai family
fudai with 36,000 koku(1649-1871)
naokiyo nagai(jugoinoge,hyuga no kami and head of military patrol),the second son of naokatsu nagai.
naotoki nagai(jugoinoge,ichi no tsukasa),the child of naokiyo nagai and the oldest son of naoyoshi nagai.
naotane nagai(jugoinoge,hyuga no kami),the fourth son of naoyuki nagai who was the clan of yamashiro-yodo domain.
naotatsu nagai(jugoinoge,hyuga no kami),the oldest son of naomitsu nagai who was the clan of yamato-shinjo domain.
naohide nagai(jugoinoge,bingo no kami),the second son of naotane nagai.
naozane nagai(jugoinoge,hida no kami),the fifth son of naomitsu nagai who was the clan of yamato-shinjo domain.
naoyuki nagai(jugoinoge,omi no kami),the oldest son of naozane nagai.
naoyoshi nagai(jugoinoge,hida no kami),the third son of naozane nagai.
naonobu nagai(jugoinoge,hyuga no kami),the third son of naoyoshi nagai.
naotomo nagai(jugoinoge,hida no kami),the oldest son of naonobu nagai.
naoteru nagai(jugoinoge,hida no kami),the second son of naotomo nagai.
naotsura nagai(jugoinoge,hida no kami),the second son of chikayoshi matsudaira.
naomasa nagai(jugoinoge,hyuga no kami),the third son of naotsugu nagai.
nagahama domain
nagahama domain was the domain belonged to fudai daimyo who possessed the nearby spots of sakata-gun,omi province in the early edo period.
the government building of domain was set up at the nagahama castle(omi province)(nagahama city,shiga prefecture).
in 1606,nobunari naito with 40,000 koku in the domain of sunpu in suruga province transferred to another territory to watch toyotomi clan's movements provided with 40,000 koku,and established the domain.
at the time of changing the territory,he was provided with 5,000 pieces of hakugin(white silver)by edo bakufu for the repair cost of nagahama-jo castle.
nobumasa naito,the oldest son of nobunari,transferred to takatsuki domain in settsu province which was closer to osaka,so the original domain was abolished.
successive lords of the domain
the naito family(lineage of nobunari)
fudai with 40,000 koku(1605-1615)
nobunari naito(jugoinoge,buzen no kami),the adopted child of kiyonaga naito.
a theory says he was an illegitimate child of hirotada matsudaira.
nobumasa naito(jugoinoge,kii no kami),the oldest son of nobunari naito.
nagaoka domain(yamashiro province)
nagaoka domain was the domain belonged to fudai daimyo who possessed the nearby spots of otokuni district,yamashiro province in the early edo period.
the jinya(regional government office)was run in nagaoka(nagaokakyo city,kyoto prefecture)as government building of domain.
in 1633,naokiyo nagai who was a shoinban(the castle guard)and a hatamoto with 8,000 koku in his possession within kazusa province and shimousa province gained another territory in yamashiro province,kii province,and settsu province in addition to his original territory to be promoted to daimyo with 12,000 koku.
he initially set his place in shoryuji castle in nagaoka,and later moved into kotari-ji temple in nagaoka.
he bacame head of military patrol on his promotion.
in 1649,he transferred to takatsuki domain provided with another 24,000 koku,so the original domain was abolished.
