yamato katsuragi hozan-ki
yamato katsuragi hozan-ki(大和葛城宝山記)is a shinto book written from the point of view of buddhism,especially shugendo(japanese ascetic and shamanistic practice in mountainous sites).
it is also called as大和葛宝山記,yamato katsuragi hozan-ki(大和葛木宝山記),katsuragi hozan-ki(葛城宝山記),jingi hozan-ki(神祇宝山記),etc.
about the material
it contains the words of "edited by gyoki bosatsu" in the beginning of the book,and "april 1,745" and "written and provided by ninso(a buddhist monk)of kofuku-ji temple" at the end of the book.
in "koro kujitsu-den" written by yukitada watarai in 1300,the book is recorded as "a postscript of ise-jingu shrine hiki(secret record of ise-jingu shrine)of several hundred volumes" together with asuka-ki,taiso hifu,shin no mihashira hiki,and jinno jitsuroku.
this is the oldest record in which we can confirm the presence of the book for now.
for the above reason,the prevailing orthodoxy is that it was written by a buddhist priest of the shingon sect line in the late kamakura period.
in the book,shinto is interpreted uniquely,which greatly affected shinto gobusho(five-volume apologia of shinto)later.
"hozan" in the title of the book is the katsuragi mountain ranges(mt.nijo,mt.iwahashi,mt.yamato katsuragi,mt.kongo,etc.)running north and south around the border between osaka and nara prefectures.
from ancient times,hitokotonushi no kami has been sacred in the region.
contents
yamato katsuragi hozan-ki interprets gods of shinto religion uniquely as follows.
hitokotonushi no kami is referred to as an incarnation of kujaku myo-o.
also,amenominakanushi no mikoto is enshrined in toyuke no miya in ise,which suggests amenominakanushi no mikoto is the same as toyouke no okami in geku(the outer shrine of ise).
this explains the order of saishi(religious service)(geku sensai:an old custom that geku precedes in saishi over naiku[the inner shrine of ise]and is not known exactly why)as well as geku practically predominating over naiku.
therefore,the book is considered to support watarai shinto(a school of shinto teachings transmitted by priests of the watarai clan at geku of the ise-jingu shrine).
also,amaterasu(the sun goddess),who are supposed to be enshrined in naiku,is the same as dainichi nyorai(same as todaiji rushanabutsuzo[the statue of birushana buddha in todai-ji temple]?).
in addition,it is also written that "amaterasu respects amenominakanushi no mikoto."
it is notable that the book uses the names of ohirumemuchi no mikoto and amaterasu,which were supposed to be the same,as if they were different gods.
moreover,as the god enshrined in katsuragi region,izanagi no mikoto,izanami,amenominakanushi no mikoto,katsuragi futakami no mikoto(two gods of toyofutsu no mitama and kunitama;the relationship with katsuragi futakami-jinja shrine is notable),etc.are mentioned.
it is also written that toyofutsu no mitama is also takemikazuchi,hoki bosatsu,and kumano gongen.
okunitama no mikoto is also written as a daishogun(commander in chief)of kunitsukami(god of the land).
the book points out that toyouke no okami has a deep relationship with katsuragi and the word "中" (naka)in the god's another name,amenominakanushi no mikoto(天御中主尊),may have some deep meaning in it.
it is also notable that the word "豊" (toyo)is affixed to futsuno mitama(布都御魂)to describe as toyofutsu no mitama(豊布都霊神).
