hatamoto-yoriaiseki(a family rank of high-ranking hatamoto,direct vassal of the shogun)
hatamoto-yoriaiseki was kakaku(family status)of high-ranking hatamoto with income of 3,000 koku or greater without official appointment,or retirees(known as yakuyoriai)who possessed social standing higher than hoi(those with the rank who wore clothes that did not bear family crests)in the edo bakufu(japanese feudal government headed by a shogun).
its correct name was yoriai.
other social standings of hatamoto include koke(a master of ceremony;honorable family)and kobushin-gumi(samurai without official appointments who receive small salaries).
it was under the control of wakadoshiyori(junior councilor).
kotaiyoriai(alternate yoriai,a family status of samurai warriors in the edo period)was included in hatamoto-yoriaiseki,and although yoriai-oyakukin(a kind of tax)had to be paid,they were under the control of roju(senior councilor).
in the last days of the tokugawa shogunate,there were 180 hatamoto-yoriaiseki including kotaiyoriai.
summary
yoriai had been under the control of rusui(caretaker or keeper[official post in the edo period];rusui is under the control of rojyu[senior councilor of the tokugawa shogunate]),but it became under the control of wakadoshiyori in june 1719,and in 1740,hatamoto with income of 3,000 koku or greater was appointed as yoriai.
the standards for yoriai were as follows:
karoku(hereditary stipend)of 3,000 koku or greater
even if the karoku was 3,000 koku or less,the following generation of rusui(caretaker or keeper[official post in the edo era]),oban(obangumi unit[castle guards of hatamoto]),shoinban(the castle guards)and koshogumi(page corps)were considered as yoriai.
kotaiyoriai was included in yoriai,even if the karoku was 3,000 koku or less.
retirees who had served a post of 3,000 koku or less with a rank higher than hoi were included in yoriai as yakuyoriai.
as an exception,former daimyos(japanese territorial lord),kanamori clan and honda clan(the lineage of tadanaka honda),were included in yoriai.
however,even with the karoku of 3,000 koku or greater,those who belonged to omote-koke(a post in the edo bakufu that was in charge of its rituals and so on that had no official court rank)were not included in yoriai.
yoriai-kimoiri without official appointment was selected from yoriai in 1790,and they recommended and made intercessions in appointing posts and assigning additional posts from yoriai.
yoriai-oyakukin,which was equivalent to kobushinkin(a kind of tax),was paid by installments in august and february at the rate of 2 ryo per 100 koku.
