ashikaga no sho
ashikaga no sho was a shoen(manor)that was located in ashikaga county,shimotsuke province(ashikaga city,tochigi prefecture).
its territory included the whole of ashikaga county and a part of aso county(akami-go).
it was described as shimotsuke no kuni ashikaga-eki in "engishiki" (an ancient book for codes and procedures on national rites and prayers),and ashikaga-gun ekiya-go in "wamyo ruijusho" (a dictionary of japanese names).
summary
it was originally owned by the ashikaga clan of the fujiwara no hidesato line and in the ninan era(1166-1169)of the heian period,it was owned by the taira clan.
after toshitsuna ashikaga of the fujiwara family was ruined by minamoto no yoritomo of the minamoto clan,the ashikaga clan of minamoto family owned it and successively inherited the position of jitoshiki(manager and lord of manor).
after the establishment of the muromachi bakufu(japanese feudal government headed by a shogun),it was managed by the kamakurafu(local government office muromachi bakufu in kamakura)as an important place.
after mitsukane ashikaga died in 1409,it was placed under direct control of the bakufu and a vassal of the bakufu kanrei(shogunal deputy)was dispatched as a daikan(local governor).
when shogun yoshinori and kamakura kubo(governor-general of kanto region)mochiuji were in conflict,mochiuji once unlawfully seized it(settled in 1411).
timeline
1137
minamoto no yoshikuni donated the developed land which he inherited from minamoto no yoshiie to anrakujuin temple(a temple constructed by the retired emperor toba)(hachijoin territory).
ashikaga no sho was established.
1150
minamoto no yoshikuni moved to ashikaga no sho(the origin of the ashikaga clan of the minamoto family).
1333
the kamakura bakufu fell.
1338
takauji ashikaga established a bakufu in kyoto(muromachi).
1439
norizane uesugi restored the ashikaga school and donated books.
1869
the lord of ashikaga domain tadayuki toda returned lands and people to the emperor and became governor of the domain.
1871
it became ashikaga prefecture according to the policy of haihan-chiken(abolition of domains and establishment of prefectures).
it became tochigi prefecture in november.
