hachimanyama-jo castle
the asai clan,hidetsugu hashiba,takatsugu kyogoku,kuruwa(walls of a castle),stone wall
hachimanyama-jo castle was a yamajiro(a castle built atop a mountain to take advantage of the mountain's topography)constructed near gamo county of omi province(present omihachiman city,shiga prefecture).
it is well-known as the residential castle of hidetsugu toyotomi.
summary
hachimanyama-jo castle was constructed on top of mt.hachiman(286 meters above sea level).
its castle town was formed by relocating the azuchi-jo castle town.
today,a part of the castle town was selected as 'omi hachiman city preservation district for groups of historic hachiman buildings',along with 'the precinct of himure-hachimangu shrine' and 'hachiman-bori moat' within the town.
drawing its water from lake biwa,hachiman-bori moat served not only as a moat during battles,but also as a waterway.
although there was a reclamation plan of the site to make a park and a parking lot in the 1970s,the castle was revived by citizens' movements including 'yomigaeru omihachiman no kai' (revitalize omihachiman), 'hachiman-bori wo mamoru kai' (save hachiman-bori moat).
the place now has become a famous tourist attraction and is often used as a backdrop for historical films.
history
in 1585,hachimanyama-jo castle was constructed by hidetsugu hashiba.
omi 430,000 koku.
in 1590,he moved to kiyosu-jo castle in owari province.
increased to 1,000,000 koku.
and takatsugu kyogoku entered the castle in place of hidetsugu.
28,000 koku.
in 1595,hachimanyama-jo castle was demolished as takatsugu kyogoku moved to otsu-jo castle.
site
tourists can use the ropeway that brings them to the top of mt.hachiman in 4 minutes.
the stone wall of the castle still exists today.
zuiryu-ji temple(omihachiman city),which was founded by nisshu(tomo),the mother of hidetsugu and an older sister of hideyoshi toyotomi,was relocated in 1961 to the location where the honmaru(the keep of a castle)once stood.
also,in 2001,ruins of hidetsugu toyotomi's residence were discovered at the foot of mt.hachiman.
