akizuki-no-ran war(turmoil of akizuki)
the akizuki-no-ran war is a revolt by the warrior class against the meiji government which took place in akizuki,fukuoka prefecture(currently akizuki,asakura city,fukuoka prefecture)in 1876.
details
a rebellion was started by about 400 people including kurumanosuke miyazaki,atsushi iso,yasura tobara,heihachi iso,hankuro tonami,tetsunosuke miyazaki,kiyoshi toki,shizukata masuda and hyakuhachiro imamura from the warrior class in the former akizuki domain in response to the shimpuren-no-ran war,which took place on october 24,1876 in kumamoto prefecture.
on october 27,three days after the shimpuren-no-ran war,the 'akizuki-to' party led by imamura raised the army and started by killing a police officer in myogen-ji temple(the first death of police officers on duty in japan).
members of the warrior class in the former akizuki domain later headed for miyako town and arrived there on october 29 because they had promised in advance to rally simultaneously with juro sugio and others from the warrior class in the former toyotsu domain.
however,as the warrior class of the former toyotsu domain decided not to rally at that time and sugio and others were incarcerated,the kitakyushu city chindai army,led by maresuke nogi,who had arrived on receiving the correspondence from the toyotsu side,attacked the akizuki-to party during the negotiation.
with a death toll of 17 on the akizuki side(two deaths in the government forces),the akizuki-to party retreated to kurikochi,egawa village(currently,aza kurikochi,oaza egawa,asakura city)and was disbanded on october 31 and seven men including iso,miyazaki and toki committed suicide.
imamura of the resistance force returned to akizuki together with 26 others,attacked the akizuki-to suppression headquarters situated in akizuki elementary school,killed two prefectural high officials,burned down the liquor store warehouse where warrior class members joining the rebellion were kept in detention,and then separately escaped,but they were arrested on november 24.
masuda left for saga city on october 26 before raising the army in order to ask the former saga domain warrior class for a simultaneous rally,but he was arrested on his way back.
as sentences were passed on the people involved at the fukuoka provisional court on december 3,imamura and masuda,who were considered ringleaders,were beheaded on the same day and penalties including imprisonment with work and deprivation of the family status were imposed on about 150 people.
at present,the death poems in the leaders' own handwriting are on display at the akizuki folk museum(formerly the residence of hankuro tonami)in akizuki.
