untei(the first public library in japan)
untei is a facility regarded as the first public library in japan.
it was founded in heijo-kyo(present-day nara city,nara prefecture)by isonokami no yakatsugu,who was a dominant noble in the latter nara period.
it is know as untei-in as well.
born into the isonokami clan that is descended from the powerful ancient clan of mononobe(alleged to be the fifth-generation descendant of the younger brother of mononobe no moriya who opposed the introduction of buddhism),yakatsugu is famed for his military accomplishments defeating fujiwara no nakamaro and rising to the rank of dainagon(chief councilor of state)but at the same time was a leading figure in literature and arts and an avid buddhist.
the origin of the library is believed to be the archives consisting chiefly of old and contemporary chinese literature that yakatsugu,in the late part of his life,built in part of his estate as part of its renovation as ashuku-ji temple and that was made open to viewing to interested persons.
he was impressed particularly by the enthusiasm for learning by a young noble named kaya no toyotoshi and reportedly imparted all of his knowledge to the young man(who,in later years,won recognition as an outstanding poet and scholar).
because of this,some believe the untei had also functioned as a type of educational facility.
in the report of yakatsugu's death in june 781 found in "shoku nihongi" (chronicle of japan continued),a historical document of the early heian period,description of his accomplishments in life is accompanied by yakatsugu's own writing on how untei was established.
the inner and outer gates are one and the same.
rapid or innovative,they share the same path.
long since i have devoted my soul to faith,surrendering my home as temple.
literature of the outer path will be placed together with the books of the inner path.
the place belongs to the buddha and nothing can be prohibited here.
if at all,let those who share the faith abandon thoughts of the futile and of oneself,rising above worldly woes and opening the path toward revelation.
(interpretation)
the "inner" belief(buddhism)and the "outer" belief(confucianism)share the same roots.
there may be differences in degree of innovation or radical change,but(the path)does not differ,so long as guidance is provided with wisdom.
it has been a long time since i have given my home as temple,in order to deepen my faith in buddhism.
in order to promote greater understanding of the buddhist sutras,works on the "outer" beliefs(on confucianism and other areas)will be stored here as well.
because this is a temple(for buddhist training),nothing is to obstruct training in the religion.
i sincerely wish that those who come here with the same aspirations(faith in buddhism)will abandon one's own desires(focus on learning and training)without wasting themselves on trivial matters of various thoughts,and those who are to follow will transcend worldly matters and open the path toward revelation.
these words express yakatsugu's deep faith in buddhism and the basic principles of untei and are followed by a report mentioning the existence of the untei,proving that it had existed at the time of completion of "shoku nihongi" in 797.
in reality,however,the capital was moved three years after yakatsugu's death to nagaoka-kyo and later to heian-kyo,marking the decline of heijo-kyo.
yakatsugu's death also marked the decline of the isonokami clan in power,due to the rise of other powerful noble clans including the fujiwara.
untei is believed to have been abandoned and devastated likewise with these changes in history.
in a passage in the 'shugei shuchiin-shiki' written when the priest kukai founded the shugei shuchiin school in 829,the 'nikyo-in' of kibi no makibi and untei-in of isonokami no yakatsugu are mentioned as the school's predecessors,with the current state of untei described as 'having a beginning and unending,abandoned by people,in devastation,' suggesting that it no longer existed in his times.
the untei is believed to have stood in the grounds of present-day nara municipal ichijo high school,and a monument dedicated to the library stands inside the property.
question concerning the kanji '芸'
reading the character '芸' as 'un' is not erroneous.
the character used in the name is actually one that is totally different from the character '芸' (read 'gei')that is used for words such as芸能("geino" meaning "art" or "show business")and園芸("engei" meaning gardening or horticulture).
the character '芸' that is used for芸能and園芸is derived from the traditional form '藝' which was simplified into芸as a new character form published for use as common-use kanji(then "toyo-kanji" now superseded by "joyo-kanji")after the war,resulting in integration of character form with the character芸that was older in existence and in use.
the kanji藝(gei)means 'to plant' or 'skill,' while芸(un)means 'to pull out the weeds' or 'common rue' (herb used to keep insects away from papers and books),supporting the belief that the name untei comes from this definition.
another claim is that the character was chosen in honor of nigihayagi no mikoto(邇藝速日命),the founder of the isonokami and mononobe clans.
