genroin gikan(councilor of the chamber of elders)
genroin gikan were those who organized the chamber of elders(japan).
it was a post set up in the late meiji period,and had no direct connection with genro who were senior vassals of the emperor.
they were appointed by the emperor from among the peerage,government officials and academics.
it was abolished in 1890 due to the establishment of imperial diet.
major appointees
imperial prince arisugawanomiya teruhito:he became the councilor on july 2,1875,and the chairman on may 18,1876.
he was an army general and the chief of the general staff.
kanehiro ijuin:he became a councilor in 1878.
he was a viscount and a member of the house of peers.
shigetaka itami:he was a baron and kinkei-no-ma shiko(kinkei hall attendance).
michihira iwashita:he became a councilor in 1878.
he was a viscount,jako-no-ma shiko(jako hall attendance),member of the house of peers,the kyoto prefectural governor,and secretary of osaka prefecture.
michitoshi iwamura:he was a baron,minister of agriculture and commerce,imperial court councilor and director general of the hokkaido government(1886-1947).
umashine obata:he was a baron.
motohiko katori:he was a baron,kumagaya prefectural governor,and gunma prefectural governor.
yukiyasu kanai:he was jushii(junior fourth rank)kunsanto(third class of order).
yasutsugu shigeno:he was a jushii(junior fourth rank)kunyonto(fourth class of order)doctor of literature.
takauta shijo:he was in the position from february 12,1881 to december 25,1888.
he was a marquis,lieutenant general and commander of sendai garrison.
keisuke otori:he was in the position from 1882.
he was a baron.
he was the principal of the imperial college of engineer and principal of both gakushuin and kazoku jogakko(girl's school for kazoku new nobility),resident envoy extraordinary and minister plenipotentiary of qing and korea,and a privy council.
koyata torio:he was a viscount and lieutenant general.
he was in the position from december,1885.
友愛takasaki:he was a baron,governor of tokyo prefecture,kitashirakawanomiya betto(an attendant to prince kitashirakawa)and kinkei-no-ma shiko(kinkei hall attendance).
mitsuaki tanaka:he was in the position from may 28,1888.
he was a count and imperial household minister.
taichi tanabe:
mamichi tsuda:he was a baron,doctor(of law),kinkei-no-ma shiko,and vice-chairman of the house of representative.
moriteru nagayama:he was a baron and kinkei-no-ma shiko.
shigeru narahara:he was a baron,president of nippon railway,kinkei-no-ma shiko,okinawa prefectural governor,and imperial court councilor.
amane nishi keimoka(illuminator):he was in the position during the period form may 24,1882 to september 29,1890.
he was a baron,principal of tokyo normal school and kinkei-no-ma shiko.
minoru fukuhara:from december 28,1882 to april 14,1887 and from september 18,1888 to september 29,1890.
he was a baron,army major general and okinawa prefectural governor.
ichido harada:he was in the position from february 5,1886 to september 29,1890.
he was a baron,army major general and head of artillery department in the ministry of army.
mamoru funakoshi:he was in the position from november 20,1888 to may 21,1890.
he was a baron and privy councilor.
sakimitsu yanagiwara:he was a count,chairman of the chamber of elders,resident envoy to russia,president of decoration bureau and the privy councilor.
tadaakira ishii:he was a councilor of chamber of elders,wakayama prefectural governor and kinkei-no-ma shiko.
