takeuchi monjo
takeuchi monjo(or takenouchi monjo;also called isohara monjo or amatsukyo monjo)is the name for a number of documents written in ancient japanese characters and include their translations in the form of manuscripts written in a mixture of kanji characters and katakana prepared by heguri no matori,the grandson of takenouchi no sukune,under the order of emperor buretsu and also inscriptions on stones,iron swords,etc.
they are the so-called koshi koden books and,because the original manuscripts themselves were lost in a fire or were not open to the public,they are deemed as 'gisho' (apocryphal documents)or 'gishi' (apocryphal history).
takeuchi monjo are also considered as the scriptures of amatsukyo,a new organized religion.
takeuchi bunken' (takeuchi literature)is often used to cover not only books,but also shinpo(sacred treasure)as described below.
takeuchi kiyomaro(or takenouchi kiyomaro),who professed himself to be an adopted child of the takeuchi family which is said to be a descendant of heguri no matori,announced the existence of monjo(documents)to the public on march 29,1928.
many of manuscripts were lost in fire or from other causes,but there are manuscripts in existence which are said to be edited from old documents of the southern court(japan).
contents
according to takeuchi monjo,the present reigning line starting from emperor jinmu is called 'kamuyamato-cho' and it is said that,before that,there were 'joko(ancient times)twenty-five eras' (or, 'koto-imperial line-twenty-five eras')followed by 'seventy-three eras of the ugaya fukiaezu dynasty' (the seventy-third emperor was emperor jinmu)and even before these there were 'seven tenjin eras.'
the twenty-first emperor of the joko dynasty is called 'izanagi mihikari amatsu hitsugi amehino sumiramikoto' and corresponds to izanagi(izanagi no mikoto,in "kojiki" (literally,records of ancient matters)and izanagi no kami in "nihonshoki" (chronicles of japan)).
one of his two children was月向津彦月弓命otherwise known as susanoo no mikoto,in other words,tsukuyomi(tsukuyomi no mikoto in "kojiki" and tsukuyumi no mikoto in "nihonshoki")and it is said to be another name of susanoo(susanoo no mikoto,written as素盞嗚尊or素戔嗚尊in "nihonshoki" and建速須佐之男命or須佐乃袁尊in "kojiki").
in addition,there are the following descriptions.
the first emperor of joko existed 317.5 billion years before christ,even before the big bang occurred and the reign of the second emperor of joko covers thirty-two billion years(although it is said that the name of the emperor of joko was passed on to his successor and there were about fifty emperors per generation).
there is a document called the 'will of isukirisu kurisumasu' (said to be jesus christ)that begins with 'isukirisu kurisumasu.god of good fortune.hachinohe taro tenkujin(heavenly person,taro hachinohe).letter given to five-color people.'
according to this document,he did not die on the cross but came to japan(it is recorded that the person who was killed on the hill of golgotha was his younger brother,isukiri),and kiyomaro takeuchi found juraizuka(十来塚)(kiyomaro takeuchi told the village chief to write it),the grave of 'isukirisu kurisumasu',namely the grave of jesus christin herai village(present shingo-mura)in aomori prefecture at the beginning of august 1935.
also,it says that moses' ten commandments are in fact omote jikkai(front ten commandments)and ura jikkai(back ten commandments)and the true ten commandments were held by amatsukyo as sacred treasures and the emperor gave them to moses when he came to japan,and moses' grave exists in hodatsushimizu-cho in ishikawa prefecture.
accordingly,founders of all major religions including shakyamuni came to japan,and served the emperor.
there existed itsuirohito(five-color people)(kibito(yellow people,asian including japanese),akabito(red people,some native americans and jews);aobito(blue people,pale skin,very few pure-blooded at present),kurobito(black people,natives in india and africans,etc.)and shirobito(white people,europeans with white skin and platinum blonde hair)in the world.
koso kotai jingu shrine is the center of the whole world.
note:the shrine which exists in ibaraki prefecture was moved from another place.
it is said that in the era of the second emperor of joko more than three thousand years ago,sixteen younger brothers and sisters scattered all over world and their names still remain as place names
although 'johannesburg,' 'boston,' and 'new york' are included as such names,these cities were built rather recently.
it is said that the origin of 'momotaro' (the peach boy)is that,approximately three thousand years ago in the era of the sixty-fourth emperor of aezucho(aezu dynasty)thirty-one princes and forty-three princesses made imperial tours and万国巡知彦尊,who was a leader with wisdom,courage and matchless physical strength,battled and won over external enemies.
there is a description that explains miyoi and tamiara collapsed(the characters for miyoi and tamiara are first seen in the books "天国棟梁天皇御系図宝の巻き前巻・後巻" by tenmin kodama in october 1940)in the era of the sixty-ninth emperor of the aezu dynasty,the emperor kantaru waketoyosuki,which reminiscent of the continent of mu first introduced into japan in 'kanbotsu tairiku mu koku' (collapsed continent of mu)in "kami nihon," june 1938 edition)or the continent of atlantis.
*descriptions on this page contain the religious principles of the religious organization 'amatsukyo.'
therefore,please note that there are certain sentences containing differing content from the original takeuchi monjo.
originally,takeuchi monjo had no direct relationship with the religious organization.
regarding kiyomaro takeuchi
kiyomaro takeuchi(circa 1875-1965)
in autumn 1910,he restored kosokotai jingu shrine.
he became the founder of amatsukyo.
"meiji kijin imayoshitsune kurama shugyo jitsurekitan" by hazan nagamine,1912,hachiman shoten isbn 4893502328(1987/01)
this is a transcription by kiyomaro takeuchi,but neither takeuchi monjo nor heguri no matori were mentioned.
around 1921,he announced that he possessed "the handwriting of the emperor chokei," "the handwriting of the emperor godaigo," "the handwriting of nichiren shonin" etc.
on august 14,1929,he changed his name in the family register to kiyomaro.
around 1936 or 1937(there are several theories),he was indicted for defamation of royalty.
criticism of the literature
tetsumaru yamazaki(山崎鐵丸)
after reading an article by misao kawaura, 'regarding the mausoleum of the emperor chokei' ("kokugakuin zasshi" (the journal of kokugakuin university)vol.33 no.4,april 5,1927)that introduced takeuchi monjo,tetsumaru yamazaki criticized the work in his article 'regarding records of the takeuchi family' ("kokugakuin zasshi" vol.33 no.8,august 1927).
kokichi kano
in may 1928,kokichi kano was asked for an expert opinion of seven photographs by two believers of amatsukyo,but he refused.
in 1935,he was asked by the "japan medical journal" for an expert opinion,and he checked five out of seven and replied that they were fakes.
the next year,in june 1936,he proved in 'criticism on ancient documents of amatsukyo' published by "shiso" of iwanami shoten,that they were apocryphal.
he checked the photographs of the following five documents.
"chokei daijingu goyurai" (history of the chokei daijingu shrine)
"chokei tenno goshinpitsu" (the handwriting of emperor chokei
"godaigo tenno goshinpitsu" (the handwriting of emperor godaigo)
roll of the names of japanese emperors from ancient times in ancient japanese characters written by daijin kishi takuchi heguri mato sukune
roll of ancient japanese characters from ancient times
in 1942,kokichi kano appeared in court and testified as a witness for the prosecution,together with shinkichi hashimoto,who was a linguist.
kumazawa tenno(emperor kumazawa)
hiromichi kumazawa,who proclaimed himself as emperor kumazawa of the yoshino court,surmised that treasures stolen from temples of the southern court around 1906 were bought by amatsukyo through a secondhand dealer and demanded their return.
oppression of amatsukyo
first oppression of amatsukyo
from december 7 through 19,1930,articles of criticism appeared in the 'tokyo nichinichi shimbun.'
keishi-cho(tokyo metropolitan police department)questioned kiyomaro takeuchi,tsunezo maeda(前田常蔵)and yasuhisa takabatake(高畠康寿)on suspicion of fraud.
no one was prosecuted.
in 1932,the special higher police of the ministry of home affairs arrested kiyomaro takeuchi,and showing of the sacred treasures was prohibited and the torii(shrine gate)of the shrine was removed due to insulting,disrespectful speech and behavior in june 1932.
second oppression of amatsukyo
on december 28,1935,the sacred treasures were given to tsuneta matsuda,who was chief of yushukan of the yasukuni jinja shrine in tokyo by shinji hata(who was also a close confidant of jinzaburo mazaki,the actual leader of kodo-ha-imperial way' faction).
in the morning of february 13,1936,in isohara-cho,taga-gun,ibaraki prefecture,kiyomaro takeuchi(under custody of the mito police until july 7,1937)and kanekichi yoshida of isoharakan hotel were arrested on suspicion of defamation of royalty,forgery and use of forged documents and fraud.
on april 17 of the same year,the prosecution papers were processed and on april 30,kiyomaro takeuchi wrote a jutakusho(consignment documents)to transfer the sacred treasures to the mito district court.
on december 11,1937,only kiyomaro takeuchi out of fifteen people arrested,was prosecuted for defamation of royalty.
on march 16,1942,the first trial decision was guilty for defamation of royalty.
appealed.
attorneys for the appeal were shiroji tatai and masami miyamoto,and the special counsel was fusaaki uzawa(later,chief of the defense team for japan during the tokyo tribunal of war criminals).
on december 12,1944,the daishinin(present japanese supreme court)found him not guilty and the trial was concluded.
designated to be dissolved
in january 1950,the general headquarters of the allied forces/supreme commander for the allied power(ghq/scap)designated amatsukyo as an organization to be dissolved.
destruction by fire and suspicion
in this trial,koso kotai jingu shrine submitted the 'statement on grounds of the final criminal appeal for jingu shinshi defamation case',along with approximately 4,000 pieces of takeuchi monjo,including sacred treasures and reports on field surveys of historic sites.
although a decision of "not guilty" was obtained,the submitted materials were not returned immediately after the conclusion of the trial and the original documents such as "吉備津彦命兵法之巻" were were reportedly destroyed by firebecause of air raids during the pacific war.
after the war,gikyu takeuchi(竹内義宮),a son of kiyomaro,has held a transcript.
one version of the story is that takeuchi monjo had not been destroyed by fire and it was kept in the "united states national archives and records administration(nara)" or "national archives of japan(former,naikaku bunko(literally,cabinet archives)",but this remains to be confirmed.
other
there are some descriptions as if a person or a vehicle in ancient literature such as the "old testament" has a certain relationship with a person or a vehicle in takeuchi monjo.
