hyakunin shuka
hyakunin shuka is an anthology of poems selected by fujiwara no sadaie.
the existence of hyakunin shuka was discovered by tamotsu ariyoshi in 1951.
it is said that sadaie wrote hyakunin shuka after his another collection 'hyakunin isshu.'
while hyakunin issu listed poetry in chronological order,hyakunin shuka arranged poetry in pairs.
comparing with one hundred poems in hyakunin issu,hyakunin shuka has 97 poems by 98 poets in common with hyakunin issu but also has three additional poems;in total,hyakunin shuka contains 101 poems.
it is uncertain why sadaie made such a difference,but one theory pointed out that hyakunin issu contained poems by emperor gotoba who had been sent into exile by kamakura bakufu(japanese feudal government headed by a shogun)due to his attempt of the jokyu war,but none was found in hyakunin shuka which was published after hyakunin issu;therefore,hyakunin shuka was the revised version of hyakunin issue based on sadaie's political consideration.
another theory states,on the contrary,that more poems selected in hyakunin shuka retain the original style of waka than those in hyakunin issu,therefore the former was the prototype of the latter.
the extant manuscript is in the collection of imperial household archives.
main differences from ogura hyakunin issu
there were no poems by the retired emperor gotoba(99)or emperor juntoku(100);instead,poems by sadaie fujiwara,minamoto no kunizane,and fujiwara no nagakata were included.
a poem by minamoto no toshiyori(74)was not the one starting with "ukarikeru.." in hyakunin issu but another poem(yamazakura sakisomeshi yori..).
there are also some poems in which details are different between two anthologies;it seems that more poems in hyakunin shuka retain the original style of waka than those in hyakunin issu.
examples of such differences are as follows:
(10)semimaru
(shuka)koreya kono ikumo kaerumo wakaretsutsu shirumo shiranumo osaka no seki
(isshu)koreya kono ikumo kaerumo wakaretewa shirumo shiranumo osaka no seki
(14)minamoto no toru
(shuka)michinoku no shinobumodisuri tareyueni midarento omou ware naranakuni
(issu)michinoku no shinobumodisuri tareyueni midare somenishi ware naranakuni
(55)fujiwara no kinto
(shuka)taki no otowa taete hisashiku narinuredo nakoso nagarete nao tomarikere
(issu)taki no otowa taete hisashiku narinuredo nakoso nagarete nao kikoekere
(77)emperor sutoku
(shuka)seohayami iwa ni sekaruru takigawa no warete suenimo awantoso omou
(issu)seohayami iwa ni sekaruru takigawa no waretemo sueni awantoso omou
