ki no yoshimochi
ki no yoshimochi(date of birth unknown-919)was a confucian and a kajin(waka poet)in the mid heian period.
his father was ki no haseo.
he became a monjosho(student of literary studies in the imperial university)in 896,and took horyakushi(a test for recruitment of government clerk)(taisaku)from a questioner,shikibu shojo(junior secretary of the ministry of ceremonial)taira no atsuyuki to pass.
under the emperor godaigo court,he successively held bizen gon no jo(the third officer of regional administration in bizen),minbu no jo(the third officer of tax and urban improvement department),gyobu no sho(junior assistant minister of justice),vice minister of kageyushicho,daigaku no kami(director of the bureau of education),and togu gakushi(teacher of the classics of the crown prince,and got to jugoinojo(junior fifth rank,upper grade)kokushi(the officer),and gon no kami(provisional governor)in shinano province.
it is said that yoshimochi wrote manajo(a preface written in chinese)for 'kokin wakashu' (a collection of ancient and modern japanese poetry)and three of his waka(a traditional japanese poem of thirty-one syllables)were chosen for chokusen wakashu(anthology of japanese poetry compiled by imperial command)including 'kokin wakashu.'
record of office and rank
dates are in the old lunar calendar.
became monjosho on april 12,896.
assigned to bizen gon no jo(the third officer of regional administration in bizen)on february 18,900.
took taisaku on october 6,901.
passed in november.
transferred to minbu no jo on october 24,902.
transferred to minbu taijo(senior secretary of the ministry of popular affairs)in 904.
assigned to jugoinoge(junior fifth rank,lower grade)on february 8,906.
transferred to gyobushoyu(deputy minister of justice department)on april 2nd.
transferred to vice minister of kageyushicho on may 19,907.
transferred to daigaku no kami on may 19,909.
served an additional post of togu gakushi on november 17,910.
promoted to jugoinojo(junior fifth rank,upper grade)on february 2,912.
served an additional post of shinano no gonsuke(officer of regional administration in shinano)on march 8,913.
shukkyo(died)in 919.
at that time,he was at daigaku no kami jugoinojo.
