tenson korin(the descent to earth of the grandson of the sun goddess)
tenson korin is a legend in japanese mythology,in which the grandson of amaterasu(the sun goddess)ninigi received the order to pacify ashihara no nakatsukuni(the central land of reed plains)and descended from heaven in order to rule ashihara no nakatsukuni.
the fact that it is similar to the mythology of establishing the nation in korea,the descent of the patriarch of kaya,suro-wang,onto the kuji mountain in particular,has been pointed out by mythologist shoei mishina.
the story of ninigi's descent to ashihara no nakatsukuni after the pacification of ashihara no nakatsukuni until the birth of the three children between him and konohanano sakuyabime is described here.
storyline
birth of tenson ninigi
amaterasu and takamimusubi said to amaterasu's child,amenooshihohomi, 'now that pacification of ashihara no nakatsukuni is done,descend to earth and rule ashihara no nakatsukuni as you agreed to do' (the "kojiki" [the records of ancient matters]).
amenooshihohomi replied, 'because my child ninigi was born as i was preparing to descend to earth,this child should be send to earth' (the "kojiki").
ninigi was a child between amenooshihohomi and takuhatachijihime no mikoto,a daughter of takagi no kami.
the two gods entrusted ninigi with the ruling of ashihara no nakatsukuni,and they ordered him to descend to earth.
sarutahiko
when ninigi was about to descend to earth there was a god in yachimata who shined light from takamanohara(plain of high heaven)to ashihara no nakatsukuni.
therefore,amaterasu and takagi no kami ordered amenouzume to go to that god and to ask who he was.
this god was sarutahiko,a kunitsukami(god of the land).
he heard that a child of amatsukami(god of heaven)would descend to earth so he came to lead his way.
tenson korin
it was decided that the descending to earth would be accompanied by itsutomonoo(the five attendants)which were amenokoyane,futodama,amenouzune,ishikoridome and tamanooya.
furthermore,he was given the three sacred items(yasakani no magatama[comma-shaped jewel],yata no kagami[the eight-span mirror],ame no murakumo no tsurugi[the sword ame no murakumo,literally "heavenly sword of assembled clouds"])and omoikane,tajikarao and amenoiwatowake from the eternal world to accompany him,and amaterasu said, 'think of this mirror as my spirit,enshrine it and worship me.omoikane,you should be in charge of rituals and take care of the administration of the shrine' (the "kojiki").
these two gods are enshrined at ise-jingu shrine.
toyouke is enshrined in gegu(the outer shrine)at ise-jingu shrine.
amenoiwatowake's alternate names are kushiiwamato and toyoiwamato,and he is the mikado no kami(deity of the gate).
the deity tajikarao is enshrined in sananagata.
amenokoyane is the patriarchal deity of the nakatomi clan.
futodama is the patriarchal deity of inbe clan.
amenouzume is the patriarchal deity of the sarume clan.
ishikoridome is the patriarchal deity of kagami tsukuri no muraji.
tamanooya is the patriarchal deity of tamanooya no muraji.
ninigi left takamanohara,went from ama no ukihashi(the heavenly floating bridge)to uki-shima island,and he descended to earth at kujifurutake in takachiho,himuka,chikushi.
the site where he descended was noted in the nihonshoki(chronicles of japan)as places such as sohori and futagami no yama(mt.futagami).
himuka was called himuka,and there is no record of it being hyuga province.
amenooshihi and amatsukume wore their armors and led the way.
amenooshihi is the patriarchal deity of the otomo clan.
amatsukume is the patriarchal deity of kume no atai.
ninigi said, 'this land faces karakuni(korea),and there is a direct path to kasasa no misaki,and this land receives lots of morning light and lots light from the setting sun,therefore,this is a very good land' (the "kojiki"),and he built a palace and decided to live there.
there are two places for the site of tenson korin, 'takachiho no mine' mountain,which is one of the mountains in the kirishima mountain range in southern kyushu,and takachiho-cho in miyazaki prefecture.
there are legends of tenson korin since the ancient times.
however,in the case of takachiho no mine mountain,there is only the name of the mountain and there is no place name of 'takachiho'.
therefore,there is a tendency to view that 'the correct area is around takachiho-cho,in miyazaki prefecture.'
however,in reality,there is no definitive answer as to which one is the correct site.
in takachiho-cho,there is 'the legend of ama no iwato,' where amaterasu hid,and the legendary cave also exists in reality,
note:the legend of ama no iwato exists in multiple areas besides takachiho-cho,and it is not necessarily limited to takachiho-cho region.
sarutahiko and amenouzume
ninigi told amenouzume to bring sarutahiko to his destination and serve in that god's name.
thus,sarume no kimi was named after sarutahiko.
sarutahiko got his hand caught in hirafu-gai shellfish and drowned when he was fishing at azaka.
his name was sokodokumitama when he was submerged at the bottom,tsubutatsumitama when the bubbles were rising up,and awasakumitama when these bubbles burst.
amenouzume returned after bringing satutahiko to his destination,and she gathered all the fishes and asked if they would serve amatsukami's son(ninigi).
among the many fishes that answered that they would serve ninigi,only the sea cucumbers did not answer.
then amenouzume said 'is this mouth a mouth that does not answer?' and she slit the mouth with a short sword.
this is why the sea cucumber's mouth still looks like it is slit open.
konohana sakuyabime and iwanagahime
ninigi met a beautiful girl at kasasa no misaki cape.
she was a daughter of oyamatsumi,and her name was kamuatatsuhime,with an alternate name of konohana sakuyabime.
when ninigi proposed to her to marry him she told him to ask her father.
when he asked her father,oyamatsumi,he became very happy,and he also presented to him her sister,iwanagahime.
however,iwanagahime was very ugly,and ninigi sent iwanagahime home and married only konohana sakuyabime.
oyamatsumi said, 'the reason why i offered my two daughters together was that i made a vow that by making iwanagahime your wife,the son of amatsukami(ninigi)'s life would be as eternal as a rock,and by making konohana sakuyabime your wife,you would prosper as a tree flowers.because you married only konohana sakuyabime,the son of amatsukami's life will be short just as flowers on a tree' (the "kojiki").
this is why emperors have short lives,even now.
konohana sakuyabime giving birth.
konohana sakuyabime became pregnant overnight.
when ninigi heard this,he said, 'there is no way you can get pregnant overnight.the child must be a kunitsukami's' (the "kojiki").
konohana sakuyabime made a vow saying, 'if this is a child of a kunitsukami,then it will not be a safe birth.if the child is amatsukami's,then the birth will be safe' (the "kojiki").
she then built a palace without a door,entered into it,and she set the palace on fire when it was time to give birth.
since the children were amatsukami's the three children were born safely.
the child that was born when the fire was burning fiercely was named hoderi,the child that was born when the fire lost its force was named hosuseri,and the child that was born when the fire went out was named hoori,also known as amatsuhikohikohohodemi.
the order of the birth of the princes differs depending on the source.
