fujiwara no kiyosuke
fujiwara no kiyosuke(1104-july 17,1177)was a court noble and poet at the end of the heian period.
he was of the fujiwara no uona family,the northern house of the fujiwara clan.
he was first called takanaga.
his father was fujiwara no akisuke.
his mother was the daughter of takashina no yoshito.
fujiwara no akikata was his older brother,the gyobukyo(the chief of justice)fujiwara no shigeie and fujiwara no suetsune his younger paternal half-brothers,and kensho his younger step brother.
among his children was fujiwara no sayaki.
in 1144 his father akisuke was commissioned by emperor sutoku to compile the imperial anthology, "shika wakashu" (the collection of verbal flowers).
while working as his father's assistant,he had differing opinions from him.
consequently,most of his selections were not adopted.
subsequently,disliked by his father,with no luck at promotion,he ended up with working for fujiwara no tashi(masaruko)who was taikotaigogu taishin(officer of the internal palace of the grand empress dowager)with senior forth lower.
taira no tsunemori was geshi taikotaigogu no suke(minor official of the internal palace of the grand empress dowager).
finding favor with emperor nijo,he became the editor of "shokushika wakashu" (the new collection of verbal flowers).
this could not become an imperial anthology as the emperor did not live to see it completed.
in 1155 he took over his father as the organizer of hitomaroeigu(the poetry contest in honor of hitomaro)and succeeded the rokujo-to family.
his rival was fujiwara no toshinari of the mikohidari house of the fujiwara clan.
writing numerous books,he established the poetics of the rokujo-to family.
thus he is known for perfecting japanese poetics in the heian period.
his verses were included in the imperial anthologies from "senzai wakashu" (the collection of a thousand years)onwards.
he also compiled "kiyosukeshu" (the selected verses of kiyosuke)and wrote theoretical works such as "fukurozoshi" (also known as fukuroshoshi)(a book of folded pages), "ogisho,"(the book of arcanum)and "wakaichijisho" (a critique of the wakaichisho(a poetic anthology)).
ogura hyakunin isshu(hundred poems by one hundred poets)
no.84:if i live longer,shall i recollect the present distress as i yearn for the past anguish now?
("shin kokin wakashu" (the new collection of poems,past and present),miscellaneous 1843).
