fujiwara no kiyotada
fujiwara no kiyotada(date of birth unknown-july,958)was a court noble and a poet who lived during the mid-heian period.
he was born into the yoshikado line of the northern house of the fujiwara clan.
the second son of fujiwara no kanesuke(tsutsumi chunagon-vice-councilor of state).
his mother is unknown,but the poem by 'kiyotada's mother' was collected in "gosenshu" (later selected collection of japanese poetry).
fujiwara no masatada and fujiwara no yasutada were his brothers,fujiwara no mitsunobu was his son,and murasaki shikibu was his niece's granddaughter.
his highest court rank was jugoinojo(junior fifth rank,upper grade),while his final government post was kii no kami(governor of kii province)after he experienced kurodo no to(head chamberlain),saiin no kami(secretary of the office of the high priestess of kamo),sakone no shosho(minor captain of the left division of inner palace guards),and so on.
he was one of the sanjurokkasen(thirty-six immortal poets),and 31 poems in total were collected in "gosen wakashu" and other successive chokusen wakashu(anthology of japanese poetry compiled by imperial command).
he left a personal collection "kiyotada shu."
record of offices and ranks held
*the following dates were based upon the old lunar calendar.
november 22,930:jugoinoge(junior fifth rank,lower grade)was conferred on him.
january,934:he was appointed as kii no gon no suke(provisional assistant governor of kii province).
march,942:he was transferred to bizen gon no kami(provisional governor of bizen province).
april,946:he was admitted to the court.
july:he was transferred to uhyoe no gon no suke(provisional assistant captain of the right division of middle palace guards).
december 14,947:he was appointed kurodo(chamberlain).
january,948:he was appointed to kurodo no to.
january 7,949:he was advanced to jugoinojo.
february:he held the position of saiin no kami,too.
may:he was also appointed to shuri gon no suke(provisional assistant master in the office of palace repairs),remaining in the position of saiin no kami.
february,950:he was transferred to omi no suke(assistant governor of omi province).
march:he was admitted to the court again.
october,955:he was transferred to sakone no shosho.
january,956:he was transferred to kii no kami.
october 8,956:he was admitted to the court again.
july,958:he passed away.
he was kii no kami with the title of jugoinojo.
