fujiwara no sadakata
fujiwara no sadakata(873-september 11,932)was a court noble and poet who lived from the beginning through the middle of the heian period.
his father was fujiwara no takafuji,who was posthumously raised to the rank of high chancellor(sadakata was his second son).
his mother was miyaji no resshi.
his own mother also gave birth to a girl,his sister fujiwara no inshi(who was a lady-in-waiting for emperor uda,and emperor daigo's birth mother).
sadakata's wife was the daughter of fujiwara no yamakage.
he had several children,including fujiwara no asatada,fujiwara no asahira,fujiwara no noshi(a lady-in-waiting to emperor daigo and wife to fujiwara no saneyori),prince yoshiakira,and daughters that married fujiwara no kanesuke and fujiwara no morotada.
beginning in 892,when he was made an unoderi(an officer of the central secretariat),he steadily rose in rank;in 895 he was made a third-rank official of the province of mutsu,and the following year was made the surrogate shugo(de facto governor)of owari province,an appointment of jugoinoge(junior fifth rank,lower grade).
and in the year after that,he added to his titles by being promoted to sakone no shosho(major-general o the imperial left guard).
thereafter he held successive positions as provincial officials,including the posts of surrogate governor of sagami province and governor of bizen province,and in 901,he was raised to sakone no shosho,a position of jugoinojo(junior fifth rank,upper grade).
the following year(in 902)he was raised to shogoinoge(senior fifth rank,lower grade),and in 906 achieved the rank of chusho(deputy commander),jushiinoge(junior fourth rank,lower grade).
then he was appointed a sangi(royal advisor)in 909,and the following year reached jushiinojo(junior fourth rank,upper grade).
in 913 he was promoted to chunagon(vice-councilor of state),jusanmi(junior third rank),and in the fourth month of the same year was also named the chief of the left gate guard.
he was promoted to dainagon(chief councilor of state)in 920.
the following year he reached shosanmi(senior third rank).
he was promoted to udaijin(minister of the right)in 924 and in 926 ascended to junii(junior second rank);he died in 932 at the age of 60.
on the tenth day of the eighth month,he was posthumously raised to juichii(junior first rank).
his residence was on sanjo avenue in kyoto,which is why he came to be called sanjo udaijin.
skilled at waka poetry and musical composition,he was a major patron of ki no tsurayuki and oshikochi no mitsune.
his poems were included in the 'kokinshu' (waka collection from ancient and modern times)and the other imperial waka anthologies mentioned below.
his personal poetry anthology is called the 'sanjo udaijin collection.'
his poem in the kokinshu
the ominaeshi(the patrinia flower)is hardly seen outside of autumn because it blooms now in the fields of the milky way
his poem in the ogura hyakunin isshu(ogura's one poem each from 100 poets)
number 25: "taking a name and bearing it,it would be good indeed to come unknown to men and walk among the vines on the slopes of rendez-vous mountain" (a love poem in the third section,number 701,in the 'gozen wakashu' (later selections of waka from ancient and modern times)).
