the thousandth anniversary of the tale of genji
the thousandth anniversary of the tale of genji refers to various events held to commemorate a thousand years since the tale of genji was written.
summary
the date is based on the appearance of phrases such as 'wakamurasaki' (lady murasaki)and 'genji' in the entry for december 7,1008 of "murasaki shikibu nikki" (diary of lady murasaki shikibu).
2008 marked exactly a thousand years since records confirm that the tale of genji was being read.
as it is considered 'an important date,' many events were held to commemorate it.
details
2006
november 1:a group of eight people,led by genshitsu sen and comprising ken akiyama,takeshi umehara,jakucho setouchi,donald keene,toru haga,yasuhiko murai and kimiko reizei,made 'an appeal for the thousandth anniversary of the tale of genji.'
2007
january:the committee for the thousandth anniversary of the tale of genji was established.
april 27:the bureau of the thousand-year anniversary of the tale of genji was set up.
2008
november 1:a commemorative ceremony,attended by the present emperor and empress,was held at the kyoto international conference center.
2009
the 'thousandth anniversary of the tale of genji project' was completed.
the official web site was closed,and the 'committee for the thousandth anniversary of the tale of genji' was reorganized into the 'committee to promote classics day.'
organization
the committee for the thousandth anniversary of the tale of genji was set up as the central promoting organization of the thousandth anniversary of the tale of genji project.
starting with kyoto prefecture,kyoto city,uji city and the kyoto chamber of commerce and industry,which have deep connections with the tale of genji,the organization also consisted of prefectures and associations in the kinki area and the agency for cultural affairs.
events for the thousandth anniversary of the tale of genji were divided into sponsored,co-sponsored,and aided and supported events,the difference between them depending on how the committee for the thousandth anniversary of the tale of genji was involved.
the committee supported the organizers or,conversely,requested them to provide financial assistance or necessary goods in line with the theme or purpose of the events.
the bureau was placed under the committee as a working level organization with offices in kyoto and tokyo.
events
various events related to the tale of genji were held,including:
lectures,symposia and plays related to the tale of genji
exhibitions of old manuscripts and art works related to the tale of genji
publishing of books related to the tale of genji
