kanemune nakayama
kanemune nakayama(1163-october 5,1242)was a court noble and a waka poet who lived in the heian period.
the oldest son of inner minister tadachika nakayama.
his mother was benkan(the office of state officer)fujiwara no mitsufusa's daughter.
his lawful wife was a daughter of fujiwara no shigeie(gyobukyo,governor of the justice bureau).
shonii(senior second rank),azechishi(provincial administrator),junior major councillor.
he had children such as tadasada nakayama,nakachika nakayama,and yoshikatsu nakayama.
he was raised to the peerage in 1167.
he consecutively experienced chamberlain,imperial guard officer,deputy general of imperial guard of the right,governor of awa province,junior governor of iyo province,junior governor of harima province,and junior governor of bicchu province.
in 1193,he was appointed as kurodo gashira(head of the imperial secretary office),and sangi(councilor)in 1195,experiencing junior major councillor,and then raised to shonii(senior second rank)dainagon(chief councilor of state)in 1211.
as council of state,he served concurrently as director of procession of daijoosai(the enthronement ceremony followed by the first thanksgiving ceremony of the new emperor),junior governor of kaga province,chugushoku daibu(steward to the empress(risshi kujo))and azechi(inspector of the provincial government).
in 1218,he recommended his son tadasada for sangi,and retired from dainagon(chief councilor of state),but two years after in 1220 he demanded tadasada's resignation because of '子強好交衆,又増不孝耳' (according to the entry dated april 9,1229(old calendar)in "meigetsuki" (chronicle of the bright moon)),and the conflict between the father and son heated up.
it turned into a big disturbance and yoshimura miura and fujiwara no teika had to mediate between these two people in 1233.
in 1235,he became controller of osumi province.
on october 5 1242,he passed away at the age of eighty.
his works as a poet were as follows:one poem was collected in "senzai wakashu" (collection of a thousand years)(poem number 328);20 poems were collected in the anthologies of japanese poetry compiled by imperial command after "shin kokin wakashu" (new collection of ancient and modern poetry),he joined poetry contests such as wakamiya-sha shrine waka competition,six hundred verses waka competition,one thousand and five hundred verses waka competition,the tsunefusa family waka competition in 1191.
according to "seiasho" volume 6,teika said, 'kanemune is a good poet who comes to a meeting in full dress and makes a poem as if he dealt with government affairs.'
in 1179,he first played so(a zheng)in new year's days at emperor takakura's chokin gyoko(emperor's visit to the parent palace),and then he was appointed as chief of musical department in 1194,serving as so and biwa(a japanese lute)player at the various waka poetry gatherings.
