fujiwara no munetada
fujiwara no munetada(1062-may 27,1141)was a heian-period court noble.
he was also known as munetada nakamikado.
munetada was the eldest son of the dainagon(chief councilor of state)fujiwara no munetoshi,of the fujiwara northern house lineage of fujiwara no michinaga's second son fujiwara no yorimune;his mother was fujiwara no sanetsuna's daughter.
the highest court rank he achieved was udaijin(minister of the right),juichii(junior first rank).
he had a younger brother,fujiwara no munesuke.
he had several children,including muneyoshi,munenari,and muneshige,all fujiwaras.
he left behind a diary,the "chuyuki" (diary of nakamikado,minister of the right).
the diary was so named because its author was called nakamikado,and was serving as udaijin(minister of the right).
the other works he wrote,including works on musical rhythm and meter like "inkashu" and "hakuritsuin," are no longer extant.
waka he composed were included in the "shoku kokin wakashu" (collection of ancient and modern poetry,continued)and the "gyokuha wakashu" (collection of jeweled leaves).
career
1062(the fifth year of the kohei era):he was born.
1094(the eighth year of the kanji era):
on the thirteenth day of the sixth month(under the old lunisolar calendar),he was appointed to serve as benkan(major controller,a junior fourth rank post).
1096(the third year of the kaho era):
on the twenty-first day of the fourth month(according to the old lunisolar calendar),he was appointed shuri sakyujoshi(chief overseer of the restoration of the left palace).
1097(the second year of the eicho era):
on the twenty-ninth day of the fourth month(under the old lunisolar calendar),he was additionally appointed to the uchi kuraryo(bureau of the palace storehouses).
1098(the second year of the jotoku era):
on the twenty-seventh day of the first month(according to the old lunisolar calendar),he was appointed sachuben(middle controller of the left).
on the seventeenth day of the twelfth month(in the old calendar),he was simultaneously appointed both udaiben(major controller of the right)and kuraudo kashira(director of the palace storehouse staff),and resigned from his post as chief of the restoration of the left palace.
1099(the first year of the kowa era):
on the fourteenth day of the twelfth month(under the old calendar),he was additionally appointed sangi(imperial advisor).
he resigned from his posts as uchikura gashira(director of the bureau of inner palace storehouses)and kuraudo gashira(director of the palace storehouse staff)
1100(the second year of the kowa era):
on the twenty-eighth day of the first month,he was also appointed deputy shugo(de facto governor)of bizen province.
on the twenty-first day of the fifth month(in the old calendar)he was promoted to jusanmi(junior third rank).
1102(the fourth year of the kowa era):
on the fifth day of the first month(under the old calendar),he was promoted to shosanmi(senior third rank).
1104(the sixth year of the kowa era):
on the twenty-eighth day of the first month(in the old calendar),he was transferred from deputy shugo of bizen to deputy shugo of iyo province.
1106(the first year of the kasho era):
he resigned from his post as udaiben(major controller of the right)
on the twenty-seventh day of the twelfth month(in the old calendar),he was appointed chunagon(vice-councilor of state)as well as kebi-ishi betto(head of the office of police and justice).
1122(the third year of the hoan era):
he was appointed dainagon(chief councilor of state).
1136(the second year of the hoen era):
he was promoted to juichii(junior first rank).
he was appointed udaijin(minister of the right).
1141(the first year of the eiji era):
he passed away.
he was 79 years old.
his role in history
as a court noble during the transition period between the era of rule by regents and advisors(sekkan seiji)into the era of rule by retired emperors(the insei period),he recorded the changes in that period,the events that happened in his immediate circle,and his interactions with famous people of the day,and also noted his own opinions and evaluations of these activities in the diary he left behind,making him a person of great historical significance who recorded his first-person grasp of the period in his diary,a historical record of tremendous value,and passed on that understanding to later generations.
his entries on the activities of minamoto no yoshiie,as well as his own evaluations of those activities,are of great value,since they are the impressions of a contemporary of yoshiie's.
in particular,the critical remarks and evaluations he included in his diary of the insei(rule by retired emperors)system as well as the internal strife besetting the sekkan seiji(government by regents and advisors),not to mention his commentary on the internal strife facing the minamoto clan and the rise of the taira clan,ensure his fame as one who left behind a valuable historical record,and his diary,the "chuyuki" (diary of nakamikado,minister of the right)remains a precious historical document that captures the essence of the trends in the last days of the heian period.
