minamoto no chikayuki
minamoto no chikayuki(year of birth and death unknown)was a writer and politician,a classical scholar,and a poet who lived in the first half of the kamakura period.
a son of minamoto no mitsuyuki,yamato no kuni no kami(governor of yamato province).
the descendant of seiwa-genji(minamoto clan)minamoto no yoshitada.
career
he took over his father's work and advanced the study of "the tale of genji," completing what is called the 'kawachibon manuscript.'
he was appointed to the kawachi no kami(the governor of kawachi province)and shikibu-sho(the ministry of ceremonial);his highest court rank was jugoinoge(junior fifth rank,lower grade).
before the jokyu war,he went down to kamakura,switching places with his father,who was mandokoro betto(director of the administrative board)of the kamakura bakufu(japanese feudal government headed by a shogun).
he served three generations of minamoto no sanetomo,fujiwara no yoritsune,and imperial prince munetaka,being in charge of successive waka bugyo(commissioner of waka poetry).
in the jokyu war,his father,mitsuyuki,joined the side of in(ex-emperor),but he appealed for mercy,and was accepted.
major relationships
fujiwara no teika,minamoto no sanetomo,fujiwara no yoritsune,minamoto no nakaakira,minamoto no tomochika,minamoto no nakakane,and saigyo.
major writings
the tale of genji,kawachi bon manuscript' (in collaboration with his father,minamoto no mitsuyuki)
manyoshu' (collection of ten thousand leaves)(transcription of commentary)
kokin wakashu' (a collection of ancient and modern japanese poetry)(transcription of commentary)
shinkokin shu' (new collection of ancient and modern japanese poetry)(transcription of commentary)
suigensho' (commentary on the tale of genji)
tokankiko' (travel writing in the kamakura period)(a separate volume is included)
major poems
in the early summer rain,the clouds are hanging low,and is a little cuckoo crying pitifully for the gloomy feelings("shoku shui wakashu" (12th imperial anthology)).
plume grasses in ears are wet in irino into which bucks came in the evening,is this because the bucks' tears fell onto them?("shoku shui wakashu" (12th imperial anthology))
i didn't have a chance to see you,and wasted my days,burning myself on love's flame("shoku shui wakashu" (12th imperial anthology)).
