ki no tsurayuki
ki no tsurayuki(866 or 872?-june 19,945?)was a poet and essayist from the early to the middle heian period.
he was one of the 36 immortal poets.
ki no tomonori was his cousin.
male
his childhood name was akokuso.
overview
in 905,by order of emperor daigo,he compiled "kokinwakashu(collection of ancient and modern)," the first collection of poems by imperial command,with ki no tomonori,mibu no tadamine and oshikochi no mitsune,and wrote the kanajo(preface written in hiragana).
it began with the following line,which exerted a great influence on posterity: 'waka has its roots in the human heart and flourishes in the myriad leaves of words.'
also,his waka poem was collected in "ogura hyakunin isshu(a hundred poems by a hundred poets)" (i'm not sure whether your mind is the same as before;however the japanese plum,which i know well because i've been here several times,blooms finely and perfumes sweetly to welcome me;would you come around to help me stay up for the night?).
as an essayist,he is well known for writing "the tosa diary."
in the time when it was common for men to write in chinese characters,he pretended to be a woman and wrote,in hiragana,a journal of his journey from tosa province to kyoto.
that is why the narrator of the diary is a woman.
in the history of japanese literature,it was probably the first prose written in hiragana,and it had a great influence on the later literature of diaries and essays,contributing to the development of literature by female authors.
chronology
*dates＝according to the lunar calendar until december 2,1872
he was born between 866?and 872.(?)
april 905:he compiled "kokinwakashu" as one of the editors by order of emperor daigo.
february 906:he was appointed echizen gonnoshojo.
february 27,907:he was transferred to naizen and tenzen.
september:when emperor uda went out to the oigawa river,he dedicated a poem and a preface to the emperor.
february 910:he was appointed shonaiki.
april 913:he was transferred to dainaiki.
913:he joined "teiji-in no uta awase."
he made a folding screen painting and other things.
january 7,917:he was granted the rank of jugoinoge(junior fifth rank,lower grade).
he remained in the position of dainaiki.
he also held the post of kaganosuke.
february 918:he was also appointed minosuke.
he was removed from kaganosuke.
february 923:he was appointed daikenmotsu(duty).
in september 929,he was transferred to ukyoryo.
january 930:he was appointed governor of tosa province.
he compiled "shinsen wakashu" by order of emperor daigo.
february 935:he finished his duty as the governor of tosa province and returned to kyoto.
later he wrote "the tosa diary" as a journal of his travels.
march 940:he was appointed genba no kami.
january 7,943:he was promoted to the rank of jugoinojo(junior fifth rank,upper grade).
he remained in the post of genba no kami.
march 28,945:he was appointed moku no gon no kami.
in the same year he passed away?
april 18,1904:he was granted junii(junior second rank).
his major poems
if it starts to haze and snow in spring,it looks like flowers are falling down in a village with no flowers(kokin 9).
will the wind of today,the first day of spring,melt down the frozen water that made my sleeves wet when i scooped?(kokin 2)
i'm not sure whether your mind is the same as before;however,the japanese plum,which i know well because i've been here several times,blooms finely and perfumes sweetly to welcome me;would you come around to help me stay up for the night?(hyakunin isshu 35)
i have fallen in love as fast and rushing as the water of yoshinogawa river goes among rocks with great splashing(kokin 471).
