ki no haseo
ki no haseo(born 845,died march 6,912)was a high-ranking court noble and literatus who lived from the early into the mid-heian period.
his father's name was ki no sadanori.
among his children were ki no yoshimochi,who is thought to have written the chinese preface to the 'kokin wakashu' (collected waka from ancient and modern times,usually abbreviated as "kokinshu"),and ki no yoshito,who served as kami(governor)of iyo province.
his chinese courtesy name(azana)was "kakei."
he was popularly known as ki no nagon(counselor ki).
in 890 he became zusho no kami(head of the documents office),and thereafter succeeded to the posts of monjo hakase(chief calligrapher to the court)and daigaku no kami(headmaster of the academy);in 902 he was appointed sangi(director of palace affairs),and then in 911(engi 11)he was promoted to chunagon(vice-councilor of state).
the highest court rank he reached was jusanmi(junior third rank).
he served as jidoku(also rendered "jito"),or imperial tutor,to emperor daigo.
haseo studied under miyako no yoshika,sugawara no michizane,and okura no yoshiyuki,and participated in the compilation of the 'kanke goshu' (later collection of the sugawara family),and was also involved in the compilation of the 'engi kyakushiki' (the engi codes).
michizane,moreover,recognized haseo's potential abilities,and at his suggestion haseo was chosen to serve as vice-envoy in the final diplomatic mission to tang china,all such missions having been discontinued earlier.
there is an anthology of his chinese poetry called the 'kikeshu' (collected poems of the ki family),while some of his waka were included in the 'gosen wakashu' (later selected waka anthology).
haseo's career history at court
note:all dates given are according to the old lunisolar calendar.
spring of 876:he became a student at the daigaku(academy).
february 15,881:he was chosen as a monjo tokugosho(distinguished student of literature),and appointed a deputy lesser sakan(officer)of sanuki province.
may 26,884:he was transferred to the post of third officer of sanuki.
january 16,886:he was appointed shogaiki(lesser officer of official documents).
november 25,888:he was invested into the jugoinoge(junior fifth rank,lower grade).
his position as shogaiki remained unchanged.
january 28,890:he was transferred to the post of zusho no kami(head of the documents office).
march 9,891:he was appointed monjo hakase(chief court calligrapher).
january 26,892:he was simultaneously appointed the suke(high-ranking officer)of owari province.
then,on the 23rd day of the fifth month,he was appointed the suke of sanuki as well.
this caused him to relinquish his post as suke of owari.
february 21,893:he was selected for the post of shiiubu shofu(first associate judge of the ministry of civil services).
his positions as monjo hakase and sanuki no suke remained unchanged.
january 7,894:he was promoted to jugoinojo(junior fifth rank,upper grade),while his appointments as shikubu shosuke,monjo hakase,and sanuki no suke were unchanged.
on the 16th day of the eighth month,he was transferred to the post of ushoben,or second assistant controller of the right.
his appointments as shikibu shosuke,monjo hakase,and sanuki no suke remained unchanged.
august 13,895:he was promoted to shogoinoge(senior fifth rank,lower grade),while all his official appointments remained unchanged.
on the 13th day of the eighth month,he was chosen to serve as daigaku no kami(headmaster of the academy).
his other court appointments remained unchanged(his career being an example of the phenomenon of one person simultaneously holding three different positions).
december 16,896:he was promoted to jushiinoge(junior fourth rank,lower grade),while his four court appointments remained unchanged.
may 25,897:he was transferred to the post of shikibu taifu(chief judge of the ministry of civil services).
his position as monjo hakase(chief court calligrapher)remained unchanged.
on the 19th day of the sixth month,he was also appointed jiju,or chamberlain.
february 11,899:he was promoted to udaiben(major controller of the right).
his other court appointments remained unchanged.
may 15,900:he was selected for the post of sadaiben(major controller of the left).
his position as jiju(chamberlain)remained unchanged.
january 26,902:he was appointed a sangi(director of palace affairs).
his position as sadaiben(major controller of the left)remained unchanged.
january 7,903:he was promoted to jushiinojo(junior fourth rank,upper grade),while his appointments as sangi and sadaiben remained unchanged.
then on the eleventh day of the first month,he was also appointed deputy governor(gon no kami)of sanuki province.
january 13,907:he was named the governor of sanuki province(sanuki no kami).
this caused him to resign from his post as deputy governor of sanuki.
january 7,908:he was promoted to shoshiinoge(senior fourth rank,lower grade),while his appointments as sangi,sadaiben,and sanuki no kami remained unchanged.
january 13,910:he was promoted to jusanmi(junior third rank),and transferred to the post of gon no chunagon(deputy middle counselor).
january 13,911:he was selected for the post of chunagon(vice-councilor of state).
