harima no inabi no oiratsume
harima no inabi no oiratsume(year of birth unknown-june 25,122)was the empress to the twelfth emperor keiko who was described in "kojiki" (the records of ancient matters), "nihonshoki" (chronicles of japan),and "harimanokuni fudoki" (records of the culture and geography of the harima province).
she was the mother of yamato takeru no mikoto.
her names written in kanji characters are:播磨稲日大郎姫,針間之伊那毘能大郎女,and印南別嬢.
description in classic literature
kojiki
her name appears as "針間之伊那毘能大郎女" or "伊那毘能大郎女."
it is described that she was a daughter of wakatakehiko no mikoto(prince of emperor korei),the founder of kibi and other clans,and the mother of kushitsunowake no miko,oousu no mikoto,yamato takeru no mikoto,yamatoneko no mikoto,and kamukushi no miko.
it is also described that her younger sister inabi no wakairatsume was another empress to emperor keiko.
nihonshoki
her name appears as "播磨稲日大郎姫" and it is described that she became an empress on march 3,72(in the old lunar calendar).
she was said to be the mother of oousu no mikoto and yamato takeru no mikoto,but a note pointed out that she was also said to be the mother of wakayamatoneko no miko.
in addition,a different opinion stated that her name was "稲日稚郎姫" (inabi no wakiiratsume),which was similar to the name of her younger sister,inabi no wakairatsume,described in "kojiki."
her death was noted in the section of the fifty-second year of emperor keiko(a.d.122).
harimanokuni fudoki
inabi no oiratsume described in kojiki and nihonshoki is regarded as the same person as "inami no wakiiratsume" described in the sections of kako no kori and inami no kori in "harimanokuni fudoki."
the name "wakairatsume",which was described as the name of her younger sister in "kojiki" and as another of her names in "nihonshoki," is similar to "wakiiratsume."
according to fudoki,inami no wakiiratsume's father was hikonamuchi(could be hikona no mikoto),the founder of wanibe no omi(wani clan),and her mother was kibihime.
emperor keiko visited harima to ask inami no wakiiratsume to marry him.
she hid herself but the emperor found her,and they got married at a palace(in kimura,kakogawa-cho?).
after years went by and she passed away,her grave was built in hioka.
however,her body sank into the river while being carried to the grave,so only her comb box and hire(thin sash)were buried in the grave.
mausoleum
based on the description of "harimanokuni fudoki," hiokayama tumulus(a round barrow with diameter of 60m)in ono,kakogawa-cho,kakogawa city,hyogo prefecture was identified as harima no inabi no oiratsume's hioka no misasagi(hioka mausoleum)and is now under the management of the imperial household agency.
