fujiwara no nakahira
fujiwara no nakahira(875-october 14,945)was a retainer of the imperial court who lived in the heian period.
he was the third son of shosenko(posthumous title to honor past performance)fujiwara no mototsune,and his mother was princess soshi,a daughter of imperial prince saneyasu,who was a son of emperor ninmyo.
from the same mother,he had an older brother fujiwara no tokihira,who was promoted to daijo-daijin(grand minister of state)after his death,and also a younger brother fujiwara no tadahira,who held the posts of sessho(regent),kanpaku(chief advisor to the emperor)and daijo-daijin.
his sisters were fujiwara no atsuko,who was a wife of emperor uda,and fujiwara no onshi,who was a wife of emperor daigo.
as he took over the biwa-dai palace in the sakyoichijo district,he was called biwa sadaijin(minister of the left).
in contrast to the eldest brother tokihira,whose coming-of-age ceremony was carried out by emperor koko,his coming-of-age ceremony was carried out at the court by emperor uda in 890.
he was permitted to enter the imperial court in 899,and was appointed kurodo no to(emperor's personal secretary)in 901 and then togu daibu(grand master of the crown prince's household)for imperial prince yasuakira in 917.
after serving as azechi(inspector of the provincial government)of dainagon(a chief councilor of state)and konoe taisho(major captain of the imperial guard),he was reappointed udaijin(minister of the right)in 933 and then sadaijin(minister of the left)in 938 during the reign of emperor suzaku,and he later additionally served as a togu no fu(an official in charge of education of the crown prince)for imperial prince nariakira(emperor murakami)
he was promoted as high as shonii(senior second rank).
although he was the second son,he was promoted to minister 20 years later than the youngest brother,tadahira,and therefore throughout his life he was always behind his youngest brother.
nakahira was said to be gentle and compassionate,but was bitter about this promotion issue.
in 919,following the imperial command issued by emperor daigo,he went to dazai-fu(local government office in kyushu region)and constructed the main building of the dazaifu tenmangu shrine as a bugyo(shogunate administrator).
in 940,he sent a letter to the king of wu-yueh.
he was an excellent poet and his poems were selected for "kokin wakashu" (anthology of japanese verses ancient and modern)when he was still young.
he is also known for his love affair with ise(a poet),who was a court lady of his older sister,atsuko.
also,after nakahira's death,the famous biwa-dai palace was passed down through the female line and then was acquired by fujiwara no michinaga.
