kinshige saionji
kinshige saionji(西園寺公重,1317-october 5,1367)was a kugyo(high court noble)from the late kamakura period to the northern and southern courts period.
he worked for six emperors,namely emperor godaigo(the 96th generation),emperor kogon(the first generation of the northern court),emperor komyo(the second generation of the northern court),emperor suko(the third generation of the northern court),emperor gokogon(the fourth generation of the northern court),and emperor gomurakami(the 97th generation),and rose up to shonii udaijin(senior second rank,minister of the right)in official court rank.
his father was naidaijin(minister of the interior)sanehira saionji.
his mother was ie no nyobo(a lady-in-waiting).
he had an older brother named kinmune saionji.
he had children such as gon chunagon(provisional middle counselor)sanenaga saionji and chugu(empress or one of consorts of an emperor)of emperor chokei.
in 1325,he had his genpuku(coming of age)ceremony,and in 1328,he was promoted to jusanmi(junior third rank)to rank with kugyo.
after that,he successively held the positions like tosa no gon no kami(provisional governor of tosa province),sangi(councilor),and gon chunagaon,and in 1332,he was promoted to junii(junior second rank),and became togu no daibu(master of the crown prince's quarters)for crown prince kazuhito shinno(imperial prince,and later emperor kogon of the northern court).
next year,however,as a consequence of the competition against his older brother kinmune,he was demoted to shosanmi sangi(senior third rank,councilor),and was compelled to resign his position as daibu.
in 1335,because his older brother kinmune plotted a rebellion under the kenmu restoration,and kinshige reported this to emperor godaigo,kinmune was sentenced to banishment(in fact he was decapitated by nagatoshi nawa who mistook the order.)
thanks to this contribution,it was decided that kinshige was going to succeed to the saionji family.
in 1338,he was appointed as gon dainagon(provisional major counselor).
in 1346,he was appointed as dainagon(major counselor).
in 1348,he was promoted from ukone no daisho(major captain of the right division of inner palace guards)to sakone no daisho(major captain of the left division of inner palace guards),and in 1349,he was appointed as udaijin(minister of the right).
in 1351,he resigned his position.
in 1353,he moved to the yoshino court(southern court).
in 1367,he passed away in that place.
he was 51 years old.
