naouji isshiki
naouji isshiki was a busho(japanese military commander)during the period of the northern and southern courts.
naouji isshiki was the second kyushu tandai(local commissioner)of the muromachi bakufu(japanese feudal government headed by a shogun).
naouji isshiki was commonly referred to as magotaro isshiki.
naouji isshiki's homyo(priest's name or posthumous buddhist name)was dosho nyudo.
in september,1346,naouji isshiki left the capital and went to kyushu,and there he was appointed to kyushu tandai,so he succeeded his father,noriuji's position.
afterwards,naouji isshiki and his father devoted themselves to the task of ruling the kyushu region.
however,the isshiki clan lacked the basic military forces to carry out the kyushu tandai,so the power to rule was tenuous.
one of the causes for this was the matter of the isshiki clan being on bad terms with the shoni clan;the shoni clan was for the northern court's(japan)side,the same side of isshiki clan and shoni clan used to be the chinzei bugyo(a magistrate of kyushu region).
later,the isshiki clan was subjected to an offensive movement by yorinao shoni,who supported tadafuyu ashikaga,during the kano disturbance,as the result the isshiki clan was on the back foot for a while.
later naouji succeed in exiling tadafuyu ashikaga..
however,in 1351,takauji ashikaga surrendered to the south court,and the northern court discharged the seitaishogun(commander-in-chief of the expeditionary forces against the barbarians,a great unifying leader)position from takauji ashikaga.
subsequently,the entire kyushu region was involved in chaos.
in 1352,even after takauji ashikaga had returned to the northern court's side,the majority of the powerful people in the kyushu region still gradually turned to the south court's side.
in 1353,takemitsu kikuchi,who had supported the imperial prince kaneyoshi,leading the south court's side forces,greatly defeated naouji during the battle of harisurubaru in chikuzen province.
afterward,naouji lost the military power with which he could oppose the south court's side,he and his father escaped together to nagato province in 1355.
thus,naouji received indignation of takauji ashikaga,who had reorganized the northern court,and then naouji left for the kyushu region again the following year,in 1356.
however,once again naouji lost the battle,suffering a great defeat by the kikuchi military forces during the battle of the aso-san mountain in chikuzen;so,he also lost his base located within chikuzen.
in 1358,naouji escaped to kyoto.
therefore,takauji ashikaga attempted to conduct shinsei(expedition)to the kyushu region because he was concerned about the south court,which was gaining power in kyushu region.
however in 1358,takauji ashikaga died just before the expedition because of illness.
newly assigned kyushu tandai,shigeuji hosokawa,died from illness.
soon after,the shoni clan and others retuned to the bakufu,under the service of the northern court,acting as vassals of sadayo imagawa,who had become the new kyushu tandai.
ujinao's activity after running away to kyoto is unknown.
then,norimitsu,the younger brother of naouji,started to act as the family's head.
additionally,the isshiki clan was to later become one of the shishiki(four major feudal lords who worked for muromachi bakufu)this was the lineage of the family of norimitsu,the younger brother of naouji.
regarding the lineage of naouji are as follows:the satte isshiki clan who served kamakura kubo(shogun),the niwa clan of owari province,and the kaneko clan of kai province.
family
child:ujikane isshiki(awa no kami[governor of awa province])
