michie koga
michie koga(december 4,1709-june 21,1761)was a kugyo(court noble)during the middle of the edo period.
he mainly served during the reign of three emperors,emperor nakamikado(114th),emperor sakuramachi(115th),emperor momozono(116th)and his official rank was raised to juichii udaijin(junior first rank,minister of the right.)
his father was udaijin(minister of the right)koremichi koga.
his mother was the adopted daughter of sakone no shosho(minor captain of the left division of inner palace guards)tsunatoshi hosokawa(the lord of the kumamoto domain)(a daughter of toshishige hosokawa-the lord of the kumamoto shinden domain)).
his sons were gon dainagon(provisional chief councilor of state)toshimichi koga,sakone no shosho(minor captain of the left division of inner palace guards)michikore nakanoin,gon chunagon(provisional vice-councilor of state)michitsumu higashikuze.
his daughters were sakone gon no shosho(provisional minor captain of the left division of inner palace guards)shigekata hosokawa's(the lord of the kumamoto domain)wife,gon dainagon(provisional chief councilor of state)arimasa chigusa's wife,shuri no daibu(master of the office of palace repairs)tadatsura sakai's(the lord of the obama domain)wife.
in 1718 he was raised to peerage and thereafter he was rapidly promoted as the head of the seiga family(one of the highest court noble families in japan at that time).
after he served as jiju(chamberlain),sakone no chujo(middle captain of the left division of inner palace guards),and in 1724 he became jusanmi(junior third rank)and ranked as kugyo(court noble).
after he served as gon chunagon(provisional vice-councilor of state),in 1731 he became gon dainagon(provisional chief councilor of state)and in 1732 he became toka no sechie geben(a kugyo who supervised many matters outside jomei gate at toka no sechie-imperial court ceremonies).
in 1741 he assumed the office of buke tenso(liaison officers between the imperial court and the military government).
in 1750 he resigned as buke tenso and transferred to ukone no daisho(major captain of the right division of inner palace guards),umaryo gogen(inspector of the right division of bureau of horses).
in addition,the same year,he was appointed to naidaijin(minister of the center).
in 1754 he became juichii(junior first rank),then he was promoted to udaijin(minister of the right).
however,the following year,he resigned his post.
he and his child toshimichi koga became disciples of shikibu takenouchi,a scholar to the tokudaiji family and they learned suika shinto and imperialism.
