sadataka nijo
sadataka nijo(1190-february 15,1238)was a kugyo(a high court noble)during the early kamakura period.
he was a son of sangi(councilor)mitsunaga kujo.
he was adopted by his older brother,sangi nagafusa kaijusen.
although sadataka was from the kanjuji faction of kujo family,he was called "nijo",because he lived in a residence located at nijo higashinotoin.
his name was originally tamesada,and was later changed to tsunemitsu.
career
in 1198,he was appointed to rokui-kurodo(chaimberlain of sixth rank),and bestowed jugoinoge(junior fifth rank,lower grade)in the same year.
he was successively appointed to kokushi(provincial governor)in various provinces.
in 1209,his older brother resigned from the position of sangi to let sadataka take it over,and he was promoted to ushoben(minor controller of the right).
in 1214,he became udaiben(major controller of the right)and acted as kurodo no to(head chamberlain),with awa province given as his provincial fiefdom(chigyo-koku).
he was appointed to sangi in 1218,awarded jusanmi(junior third rank)in 1219,and promoted to gon chunagon(provisional middle counselor)the following year,in 1220.
sadataka was in so deep acquaintance with muneyuki hamuro that muneyuki granted his position of jushiinoge(junior fourth rank,lower grade)to sadataka,but the two parted ways as sadataka,together with his older brother nagafusa,opposed to the retired emperor gotoba raising an army in the occasion of jokyu war.
he was deeply trusted by michiie kujo,and particularly after the jokyu war,he was appointed higher ranks supporting michiie as his political adviser,along with taira no tsunetaka and others.
he was favored by the kamakura bakufu especially because of his stance he had taken during the jokyu war,and it is believed that actual negotiations with the bakufu was exclusively handled by sadataka working under the kanto moshitsugi(court-appointed liaison with the bakufu),michiie.
he was also known for having taken in imperial princess kishi(hiroko),a daughter of the retired emperor gotoba and a saigu(imperial princesses serving at the ise-jingu shrine),to his villa in fukakusa.
in 1232,he was promoted to shonii(senior second rank)but he resigned from gon chunagon;then he was appointed to azechi(inspector of the provincial government)in 1236.
in 1238,he entered into priesthood as he suffered from a disease,and died shortly after.
