yoshinori kazanin
yoshinori kazanin(april 14,1755-april 19,1829)was a high-ranking court noble from the middle of the edo period to the late edo period.
he served five generations of emperors from emperor momozono(the 116th)to emperor ninko(the 120th),and his official court rank culminated at juichii udaijin(junior first rank,the minister of the right).
his go(pseudonym)was 'onkyoin.'
his father was gon dainagon(a provisional chief councilor of state)yoshichika nakayama.
gon dainagon,naruchika nakayama was among his brothers.
his lawful wife was a daughter of muratoki date,sakone no shosho(minor captain of the left division of inner palace guards),and his second wife was a daughter of shigetaka hachisuka,takumi-no-kami(the head of bureau of skilled artisans).
udaijin(minister of the right)ieatsu kazanin and gon dainagon sadaaki imaki(adopted by the imaki family)were among his children.
he was born the second son of yoshichika nakayama.
he was conferred an official court rank in 1759.
in 1769,he was adopted by the kazanin family,thus leaving the nakayama family.
after working as jiju(a chamberlain),sakone no shosho(minor captain of the left division of inner palace guards),and sakone no chujo(middle captain of the left division of inner palace guards),he was given jusanmi gon chunagon(junior third rank,vice-councilor of state)in 1774 and joined the realm of kugyo(high-rank court nobles).
in the same year,he was appointed as toka no sechie geben(a kugyo who supervised many matters outside jomei gate at toka no sechie[imperial court ceremony]).
in 1785,he was assigned to gon dainagon.
he held the posts of ukone no daisho(major captain of the right division of inner palace guards)and umaryo gogen(inspector of the right division of bureau of horses)in 1799,followed by the appointment of naidaijin(minister of the center)in 1814.
he stepped down from naidaijin in the following year,but he was given the rank of juichii(junior first rank).
he was assigned to udaijin in 1820 but resigned from the post in the same year.
he was also an expert calligrapher.
