fujiwara no moriko
fujiwara no moriko
she was the wife of fujiwara no morosuke(also known as the daughter of fujiwara no tsunekuni).
she was the daughter of fujiwara no michinaga.
(there is a heresy.)
fujiwara no moriko(the lawful wife of fujiwara no morosuke)
fujiwara no moriko(?-october 18,943)was the daughter of fujiwara no tsunekuni(the southern house of the fujiwara clan),who served as musashi no kuni kokushi(the governor of musashi province).
she was the wife of fujiwara no morosuke.
in 923,morosuke received his first appointment to a post at age 16;in the following year,moriko gave birth to the eldest son and heir fujiwara no koretada.
therefore,it is believed that she was married before then.
she later gave birth to fujiwara no kanemichi,fujiwara no kaneie,fujiwara no tadakimi,fujiwara no anshi(empress of emperor murakami,the mother of emperor reizei and emperor enyu),fujiwara no toshi(the consort of emperor murakami,later serving as naishi no tsukasa(female palace attendants))and fujiwara no fushi(emperor reizei's nyogo(a high-ranking lady in the court(a consort of an emperor)).
she died when morosuke was serving as a dainagon(chief councilor of state).
she was given shoichii(senior first rank)when her grandson emperor reizei was enthroned.
fujiwara no moriko(the daughter of fujiwara no michinaga)
fujiwara no moriko(date of birth and death unknown)was the daughter of sessho fujiwara no michinaga.
she was believed to be naishi no kami(principal handmaid)and nyogo of emperor sanjo.
minamoto no akiko was believed to be her mother,but details are unknown.
her name appeared in "sonpi bunmyaku" (bloodlines of noble and base),however,she does not appear in reliable historical materials such as "mido kanpakuki" (diary of fujiwara no michinaga).
as heresy,she was believed to be the daughter of minamoto no morofusa.
however,this is chronologically contradictory;morofusa was only nine years old when emperor sanjo abdicated.
therefore,details including her presence remain unknown.
