suketomo hino
suketomo hino(1290-june 25,1332)was a kuge(court noble)during the late kamakura period.
his father was toshimitsu hino.
gon chunagon(a provisional vice-councilor of state)
emperor godaigo,who had instituted shinsei(direct imperial rule)in 1321,took suketomo into his confidence,replacing goudain with him.
the two studied the sung study(neo-confucian)together,and suketomo played a key role in godaigo's anti-shogunate plot.
in the shochu disturbance in 1324,in which godaigo's plot was detected by rokuhara tandai(an administrative and judicial agency in rokuhara,kyoto)that were set up by the hojo clan to monitor the imperial court,suketomo was captured along with toshimoto hino,sent to kamakura,and sentenced to exile in sado ga shima island.
in 1331,when another anti-shogunate plot,the genko incident was betrayed by one of godaigo's main retainers,sadafusa yoshida,suketomo was executed in sado.
suketomo's appointment by emperor godaigo is included in the "tsurezuregusa"(essays in idleness)written by kenko yoshida.
the japanese classic "taiheiki" relates an episode about suketomo's son kumawakamaru taking revenge.
history of official rank
january 3,1315:investiture to jugoinnoge(junior fifth rank,lower grade)and appointed kurodo(chamberlain)
march 26,1317:appointed ushoben(minor controller of the right)
february 2,1318:reassigned to post of sashoben(minor controller of the left)
march 3,1318:promoted to jushiinoge(junior fourth rank,lower grade),retained the post of sashoben
april 6,1318:added as a member of the office of the retired emperor's government,the retired emperor hanazono
july 5,1318:assumed the additional post of monjo hakase(professor of literature)
september 27,1318:appointed kirokujo yoriudo(member of staff in the office keeping judicial records)
november 7,1318 promoted to jushiinojo(junior fourth rank,upper grade);retained the posts of sashoben,monjo hakase,and kirokujo yoriudo
december 4,1318:resigned from the post of sashoben,reassigned to the post of gonno uchuben(provisional middle controller of the right)and retained the posts of monjo hakase and kirokujo yoriudo
april 8,1319:reassigned to the post of ushoben,and retained the posts of monjo hakase and kirokujo yoriudo
september 27,1319:assigned the additional post of togu(crown prince kuniyoshi of emperor gonijo)no-suke(assistant master)
may 11,1320:appointed to the post of kurodo no to(head chamberlain),and retained the posts of ushoben,monjo hakase,and kirokujo yoriudo
november 30,1320:assigned the additional post of uhyoe no kami(captain of the right watch)
may 11,1321:appointed to the post of sangi(councillor)and sahyoe no kami(captain of the left division of middle palace guards)
conferred the rank of shoshiinoge(senior fourth rank,lower grade)
retained position of monjo hakase
january 31,1322:promoted to shoshiinojo(senior fourth rank,upper grade),retained the posts of sangi,sahyoe no kami,and monjo hakase
february 20,1322:appointed to the additional post of yamashiro gonno kami(provisional provincial governor of yamashiro)
august 8,1322:resigned from the post of monjo hakase
february 18,1323:promoted to jusanmi(junior third rank)and retained the posts of sangi and sahyoe no kami
february 26,1323:appointed to the post of kebiishi betto(secretary in the office of police and judicial chief),and retained the posts of sangi and sahyoe no kami
december 11,1323:resigned from the post of kebiishi betto
december 12,1323:left the capital and went to kamakura as an imperial messenger
may 28,1324:transferred to the post of gon chunagon
date unknown:resigned from the post of gon chunagon
october 15,1324:arrested due to the shochu disturbance(this date is in the genko era,which was later changed to the shochu period)
september 1325:he was exiled to sado province.
july 3,1332:he was executed
age at death:43
may 1876:he was honored as a casualty of war and enshrined as a deity at mano-gu shrine in mano,sado city.
february 22,1884:awarded junii(junior second rank)
burial ground:rengeozan myosen-ji temple in abutsubo,sado city,niigata prefecture.
saishi shrine(enshrining shrine):enshrined at daizen-jinja shrine at yoshioka,sado city.
mano-gu shrine at mano,sado city
yoshino-jingu shrine at yoshino-cho,nara
image of suketomo as seen in "tsurezuregusa"
stories of suketomo in "tsurezuregusa" tell about his bold and undaunted courage free of preconceived notions.
section 152
once,when the rev.jonen of the saidai-ji temple,bent with age,and whose white eyebrows showed him to be indeed a venerable man of great merit,was going to the palace,the lord chamberlain of the saion-ji temple expressed his feelings of admiration by saying, 'ah,what a sublime picture is he!' suketomo kyo,on hearing it,said, 'that must be because of his great age.'
on a subsequent occasion he went to the lord chamberlain leading a miserable,unkempt dog,old and decrepit,with bald patches on its body,and said, 'here is another of your sublime pictures!'
section 153
once,when the lay priest tamekane dainagon had been captured,and was being led under a guard of solders to rokuhara,this same suketomo kyo,as he watched him pass along first avenue,exclaimed, 'ah,how enviable is he!
a gratification in one's life such as that is indeed a thing to be desired.'
section 154
this is same man(suketomo kyo),who was once taking shelter from the rain in the gate of to-ji temple,where there were gathered together many cripples with twisted arms and distorted legs bent backwards.noting their various peculiar deformities he thought, 'these are all very strange freaks,and are certainly well worth preserving.' but,when he looked at them more closely,he soon lost all pleasure in them and,regarding them as ugly and vile,thought, 'surely there can be nothing better than the unusual upright form.' so on his return home,his well-loved little trees,which he had collected and carefully trained into queer shapes to make his eyes glad,from that time forth no longer gave him any pleasure;for he felt that to love them was like loving those cripples.accordingly,he dug up and threw away all his dwarf trees that he had cultivated in little pots.
thus should we too feel about these things.
