fujiwara no hoshi
fujiwara no hoshi(also known as fujiwara no sukeko;dates of birth and death unknown)was a court lady during the late heian period.
she was the second daughter of fujiwara no kunitsuna,dainagon(chief councilor of state).
her mother was fujiwara no kimitoshi's daughter.
she married taira no shigehira.
biography
background
while "heike monogatari" (the tale of heike)depicts fuiwara no hoshi as a daughter of fujiwara no korezane(also known as torikai chunagon(vice-councilor of state)),who was later adopted by fujiwara no kunitsuna as his daughter,descriptions in "sonpi bunmyaku" (a text compiled in thefourteenth century that records the lineages of the aristocracy)and "gukansho" (jottings of a fool)make it more likely that she was kunitsuna's own daughter.
she married taira no shigehira,taira no kiyomori's son,and later served as emperor antoku's wet nurse,claiming herself to be jusanmi(junior third rank)naishi no suke(a court lady of the first rank)and dainagon naishi no suke(secretary of the chief councilor of state).
when jisho-juei war broke out,her husband,shigehira,fought battles in many places as shogun(commander in chief)of the taira family's army;in 1180 he attacked todai-ji temple and set fire to the temple buildings and towers,burning down the great statue of buddha(known as nanto yakiuchi(the incident of taira clan's army setting fire to the temples in nanto)).
when the taira family lost the battle with minamoto no yoshinaka in 1183,fujiwara no hoshi fled from kyoto with shigehira,her husband.
in march 1184,when the taira family was completely defeated in the battle of ichinotani by the army led by minamoto no noriyori and minamoto no yoshitsune,shigehira was captured by the enemy.
shigehira was then sent to kyoto,where cloistered emperor goshirakawa plotted to return shigehira back to his family in exchange for the three sacred emblems of the imperial family that the taira army took away when fleeing from kyoto.
sent to the taira army's headquarters in yashima,sanuki province with taira no shigekuni as the envoy from the taira family,shigehira,who held as a captive and not allowed to write a letter,asked the following verbal message for his wife then moved to tears("heike monogatari").
the memory of you brings me comfort even when i am travelling alone.'
although it is such a tragedy that we are far apart,our marriage will last forever.'
we will meet each other in heaven again.'
since taira no munemori,the head commander of the taira army,refused to make the proposed exchange,shigehira was sent to kamakura after all.
in april 1185,the taira family perished in the battle of dannoura and while hoshi attempted to commit suicide by drowning along with other women,she was rescued and captured by the enemy.
after the battle,she lived as a hermit with her sister,fujiwara no kuniko(daibu(master)sanmi(third rank)),in hino,yamashiro province(currently,fushimi ward of kyoto city).
reunion and parting with shigehira
shigehira was detested by the people of nara and they demanded that minamoto no yoritomo extradite him to them.
in july 1185,he was sent from kamakura to nara,convoyed by minamoto no yorikane.
being a captive,shigehira was not allowed to enter kyoto,and as they came near hino through the daigo road,which is located between otsu city and yamashina ward of kyoto city,shigehira made his last plea,saying, 'i don't have any children that i need to worry about;however,i have a wife who lives near here,so please allow me to see her and to tell her what to do after my death,' upon which convoy samurais,moved to tears,granted his request.
they sent for hoshi to meet shigehiran in front of her house.
feeling as if it were a dream,' and with tears running down her cheeks,hoshi invited shigehira into her house,where shigehira told her what happened to him after he was caught by the enemy,and bit off a wisp of his forelock to hand it to her as a keepsake,saying that he would have preferred to shave his hair to become a priest.
shedding tears,hoshi said, 'i should have drowned myself at dannoura,but i have continued to live,wishing to see you once again.'
hoshi had shigehira change into a white robe to prepare for death,took his old clothes for her keepsake,and exchanged waka poems with him in farewell.
shigehira left her house,saying, 'we'll meet each other in heaven if we are linked by fate.'
not allowed to follow him,hoshi dissolved into tears,while shigehira,hearing her cry,was unable to move forward,and lamented in tears that he should never have come to see his wife.
shigehira was delivered to envoys from todai-ji temple to be decapitated at a site near the kizu-gawa river(kyoto prefecture)and his head was put on public display at the front gate of hannya-ji temple.
the reunion and parting of shigehira and hoshi constitute one of the most important scenes in the "heike monogatari."
later years
hoshi had the body of her husband brought back to hino,and after cremating it and holding a funeral ceremony,she sent his ashes to mt.koya.
she subsequently became a buddhist priest to pray for shigehira's soul,serving kenreimonin(also known as taira no tokuko)at jakko-in temple in ohara(sakyo ward,kyoto city).
in the volume of ohara goko(cloistered emperor goshirakawa's visit to ohara),the concluding part of the "heike monogatari," cloistered emperor goshirakawa meets hoshi while she is picking firewood and brackens together with kenreimonin.
in the last volume on rokudo(six posthumous worlds),hoshi takes care of kenreimonin,who is on the verge of death,together with awa no naishi(kenreimonin's maid).
