shigeno no sadanushi
shigeno no sadanushi(785-march 6,852)was a bureaucrat in the early heian period.
he was the child of owari no kami(the governor of owari province)shigeno no ieosa.
his children included shigeno no yoshikage,shigeno no yoshine,tsunako(who was nyogo,a high-ranking lady in the court(a consort of an emperor)of emperor ninmyo),okuko(kyujin,a court lady of emperor montoku),naoiko(wife of minamoto no kuninori)and another daughter(wife of shigeno no kibio).
brief personal history
in 807,successfully becoming a monjosho(student of literary studies in the imperial university),sadanushi was appointed as dainaiki(senior secretary of the ministry of central affairs)in 815 whereby,with his father,he received the title of ason(the second highest of the eight hereditary titles)and was given the surname in 823.
sadanushi was conferred ge-jugoinoge(jugoinoge(junior fifth rank,lower grade)given to persons outside kyoto)and was appointed as zusho no kami(director of the bureau of drawing and books)and togu gakushi(teacher of the classics of the crown prince).
in 831,advancing to the court rank of jugoinoge,sadanushi,in cooperation with confucian scholars,classified ancient and modern documents compiling 1000 volumes of "hifuryaku" (2 volumes remain in existence today)and 20 volumes of "keikoku-shu" (an anthology of chinese poems compiled by imperial command).
during the era of emperor ninmyo,after serving as kura no kami(chief of kuraryo,bureau of palace storehouses),kudai-taifu(a post of imperial household ministry),hyobu taiyu(senior assistant minister of the hyobusho,ministry of military)and danjo-daihitsu(senior assistant president of the board of censors),sadanushi was appointed as shikibu no taifu(senior assistant minister of the ministry of ceremonial),holding the concurrent posts of okura-kyo(minister of the treasury)with the court rank being jushiinojo(junior fourth rank,upper grade)and sanuki no kami(the governor of sanuki province).
since 842,sadanushi successively held various positions including sangi(the councilor)and kageyushi chokan(secretary of the office of investigators of the records of outgoing officials)and issued 'bengi jushiji.'
in 844,sadanushi built his own residence into a temple setting up jion-ji temple.
in the early kasho era(848-851),sadanushi transferred to the post kunaikyo(minister of the sovereign's household)concurrently serving as owari no kami(the governor of owari province).
immediately after emperor montoku's accession to the throne,sadanushi was conferred shoshiinoge(senior fourth rank,lower grade)with an additional post of sagami no kami(the governor of sagami province).
sadanushi suffered from syphilis and was given medication by the imperial command,but died shortly at seishoin of jion-ji temple.
it is said that,when it became known,there was not one person who did not mourn over his death.
