fujiwara no tadatsuna
fujiwara no tadatsuna
one belonged to the fujiwara no michinaga's line of the northern house of the fujiwara clan(the son of fujiwara no yorimichi;the adopted son of fujiwara no nobuie).
the other belonged to the fujiwara no hidesato's line of the northern house of the fujiwara clan(the son of fujiwara no tadakiyo).
fujiwara no tadatsuna(the son of fujiwara no yorimichi)
fujiwara no tadatsuna(year of birth unknown-1084)was a government official who lived during the mid-heian period.
he was the son of fujiwara no yorimichi,who held the title of kanpaku(chief advisor to the emperor),and his mother was fujiwara no gishi.
he was adopted by fujiwara no nobuie,who held the title of gon dainagon(provisional chief councilor of state).
shijo no miya fujiwara no kanshi(the empress of emperor goreizei)and fujiwara no morozane were tadatsuna's actual siblings,but out of consideration for yorimichi's lawful wife princess takahime and yorimichi's legitimate son fujiwara no michifusa,he was adopted out.
tadatsuna successively held various posts,including tajima no kuni no kami(governor of tajima province),omi no kuni no kami(governor of omi province),and togubo(crown prince's quarters),and eventually rose to the rank of shoshiinoge(senior fourth rank,lower grade).
he passed away in 1084.
tadatsuna had three sons,fujiwara no nagakane,fujiwara no motokane,and shingaku.
fujiwara no tadatsuna(the son of fujiwara no tadakiyo)
fujiwara no tadatsuna(year of birth unknown-1183)was a samurai who lived toward the end of the heian period.
he was the son of fujiwara no tadakiyo,who held the title of suke(provincial governor)in kazusa province.
he was one of the influential kenin(retainers)in the taira clan government.
taira no kagekiyo was one of the brothers of tadatsuna.
in december 1179,as a result of taira no kiyomori's coup(coup of the third year of jisho),tadatsuna was appointed as saemon shojo(jr.lieutenant of the left division of outer palace guards)through a jimoku(ceremony for appointing officials)and also received the imperial decree to become a kebiishi(a police and judicial chief).
in june 1180,tadatsuna killed minamoto no kanetsuna and others during the hunt for prince mochihito and minamoto no yorimasa,who were raising an army to defeat the taira clan(the rising of prince mochihito).
for his distinguished deed,tadatsuna was awarded the rank of jugoinoge(junior fifth rank,lower grade)and was henceforth called kazusa tayu hogan.
in 1183,he also participated in the hunt for minamoto no yoshinaka,but died in the battle of the kurikara pass.
