yoshimichi isshiki
yoshimichi isshiki(date of birth unknown-1579)was a busho(japanese military commander)and daimyo(japanese territorial lord)in the sengoku(warring states)period(japan)and azuchi-momoyama period.
head of the isshiki clan and daimyo of tango province.
child of yoshiyuki isshiki.
father of yoshisada isshiki(also known as yoshitoshi or mitsunobu).
his name,originally written as yoshimichi(義道),is sometimes written in different chinese characters as yoshimichi(義通).
served as shikibu no taifu(government official of the ministry of education).
also served as sakyo no daibu(master of the eastern capital offices).
the isshiki clan of tango province was originally one of the four families used by the muromachi shogunate for security,but it collapsed in entirety during the sengoku(warring states)period(japan),with its position as shugo(military governor)taken over by the takeda clan of the neighboring wakasa province,and was then left in a situation of trying somehow or other to continue to use its influence as a ruling family of the past.
in 1558,he inherited the role of head of the clan with the retirement of his father.
his younger brother,yoshikiyo isshiki,was sent to yoshiwara-jo castle to serve as ruler of three districts in the backland of tango province.
when nobunaga oda moved to kyoto in 1568,yoshimichi developed a close relationship with him and in 1575,after fighting in the echizen ikko-ikki religious riots,nobunaga gave him control of the whole of tango province
however,because he gave shelter to the monks of mount hiei(who had been burnt out by nobunaga)and the exiled shogun,yoshiaki ashikaga,he earned the wrath of nobunaga and from 1578,nobunaga ordered his forces,comprised of yusai hosokawa and mitsuhide akechi,to attack him.
yoshimichi repulsed the attacks for a time but in response to a scheme of mutsuhide,yoshimichi's vassals changed sides one after the other in the following year,and prior to a fierce attack by hosokawa's forces,takebeyama-jo castle also capitulated.
he contemplated fleeing to tajima province and although he was fighting a lost cause he received shelter at nakayama-jo castle(nakayama,maizuru city,kyoto prefecture);however,kobee nakayama,the lord of the castle,had already betrayed him to the hosokawa side and,having no place to go,yoshimichi committed suicide.
unlike his son,yoshisada,who was known for his bravery,yoshimichi was not so popular due to the spread of misgovernment throughout his domains and for that reason he could not protect himself from the people's disaffection.
