ietaka oinomikado
ietaka oinomikado(march 6,1747-june 16,1799)was kugyo(a court noble)in the middle of the edo period.
he served for the four sovereigns who were the 116th emperor momozono,the 117th emperor gosakuramachi,the 118th emperor gomomozono and the 119 emperor kokaku;he was promoted up to juichii udaijin(junior first rank and minister of the right).
his father was naidaijin(minister of the center),tsunehide oinomikado.
his mother was a daughter of sadaijin(minister of the right)fuyuhiro daigo.
his legitimate wife was a daughter of udaijin(minister of the right)sueharu sanjo;his second wife was a daughter of yoshishige so who was the lord of the tsushima fuchu domain.
he had several children including,a son,tunehisa oinomikado and some daughters;one was the wife of yoshikatsu so(富寿)who was the lord of tsushima fuchu domain,and another was the wife of tadatsura sakai who was the lord of obama domain.
after he was conferred a peerage in 1748,being the head of the seiga family,he was successfully promoted in the imperial court in a short period.
he served as "sakone gon no shosho"(provisional minor captain of the left division of inner palace guards)and "ukone no gon no chujo" (provisional middle captain of the right division of inner palace guards),and he was promoted to jusanmi(junior third rank)in 1756,which gavem him the title kugyo.
he successively held different positions such as "gon chunagon" (provisional vice councilor of state), "gon dainagon" (provisional major counselor)and "toka no sechie geben" (kugyo who supervised many matters outside jomei gate at "toka no sechie" [imperial court ceremony]);he took the positions of "ukone no daisho" (major captain of the right division of inner palace guards)and "umaryo gogen" (inspector of the right division of bureau of horses)in 178;however,he resigned the position of ukone no daisho and became "kotaigogu gon no daibu" (provisional master of the empress dowager's household)to the empress dowager,koreko konoe since 1782.
since the empress dowager,koreko konoe died the next year,he resigned the position.
in 1787,he became naidaijin(minister of the center);in 1788,he took the position of "toka no sechie naiben" (kugyo who supervised inside jomei gate at toka no sechie[imperial court ceremony]).
in 1789,after he resigned naidaijin,he was conferred juichii(junior first rank).
in 1793,although he was appointed naidaijin again,he resigned the position shortly after that.
in 1796,although he became udaijin(minister of the right),he resigned the position within the same year.
