takayoshi kira
takayoshi kira(1348-the year of death unknown)was a busho(japanese military commander)during the period of the northern and southern courts(japan).
he was mitsuyoshi kira's son(believed to be the third or the fourth son according to the family tree).
he was mitsusada kira's younger brother.
he was the first generation of the end period of the tojokira clan(shitakira,shimokira).
he was the lord of the tojo-jo castle.
he was nakatsukasa no taifu(senior assistant minister of the ministry of central affairs).
asauji kira was his child.
his original name was yoshitaka.
later he was given one chinese character in takauji ashikaga's name and changed his name to takayoshi.
after sadaie kira and mitsuie kira;father and son in the early period of the tojokira clan left for oshu(northern honshu),tojo's territory became the territory of the saijokira clan which was a soryo(government)family and mitsuyoshi kira seized the tojo-jo castle.
takayoshi was born after that and the kano disturbance erupted soon after.
mitsuyoshi and mitsusada;father and son moved from place to place fighting on the side of tadayoshi ashikaga and after tadayoshi's death,they allied with his adopted son tadafuyu and nancho(southern court)and fought against takauji.
however,sensing the current,hikan(low-level bureaucrat)of tojo clan switched to takauji clan with nine-year old takayoshi as their lord when mitsuyoshi died in 1356,and they became independent as tojokira clan.
there was a battle between takayoshi and mitsusada who thought takayoshi invaded the territory,however,mitsusada returned to his allegiance later to hokucho(the northern court),and takayoshi was formally approved to succeed to tojo clan when the settlement was reached.
however,since some ill-feelings were left even after the battle,saijo kira and tojo kira clans constantly faced confrontation and struggle during the muromachi period.
takayoshi gave a grand 13th buddhist memorial service to his father mitsuyoshi at tofuku-ji temple in 1368.
the year of death is unknown
his tomb is located at reigen-ji temple in kirasho okayama(present kita-cho,hazu district,aichi prefecture,the burial ground of tojojikira clan within a compound of okayama kagaku-ji temple).
his posthumous buddhist name was reigen-ji temple dono.
