ujimitsu ashikaga
ujimitsu ashikaga(september 4,1359-december 12,1398)was the second kamakura kubo(governor-general of the kanto region)(reigning from 1367 to 1398)in the muromachi period.
his father was motouji ashikaga and his mother was a daughter of iekuni hatakeyama.
his homyo(posthumous buddhist name)was eianji dozen(永安寺髟玉山道全).
his childhood name was konomaru.
he had children including mitsukane ashikaga,mitsusada ashikaga,mitsunao ashikaga,and mitsutaka ashikaga.
career
when his father motouji died in 1367,he became the kamakura kubo.
in january,1368 soon after he became the kubo,the musashi hei ikki no ran(riot by local clans in musashi province)broke out,and he led troops to kawagoe at the young age of 10.
joined by kanto kanrei(a shogunal deputy for the kanto region)noriaki uesugi who came back from kyoto,he suppressed the riot on june 17 of the year.
after noriaki died,he fought against forces in the kanto region,such as ujitsuna utsunomiya,in cooperation with noriharu uesugi who succeeded to the position of kanto kanrei,and then took strong control of the kanto region.
when the split in the bakufu around two kanrei,yoriyuki hosokawa and yoshimasa shiba,emerged in 1379,he tried to take up arms against the shogun yoshimitsu ashikaga in response to it,but gave up raising an army because the kanto kanrei noriharu persuaded him not to do by death.
after that,he suppressed the rebellions of the utsunomiya clan and the oyama clan and a riot in the kanto region amongst others and then was put in charge of governing mutsu province and dewa province by yoshimitsu in recognition of his distinguished service.
ujimitsu often confronted with the ashikaga shogun family.
this confrontation later led to the dispute between the shogun family and ujimitsu's son mitsukane ashikaga and his grandson mochiuji ashikaga.
record of offices and ranks held
*date is indicated in the old lunar calendar.
on may 29,1367,he became the kamakura kubo.
on january 21,1369,he reached the manhood and took the name of ujimitsu.
on november 6,1372,he received jugoige(junior fifth rank,lower grade)and was appointed to sama no kami(captain of samaryo,left division of bureau of horses).
in february,1380,he was promoted to jushiige(junior fourth rank,lower grade)and transferred to sahyoe no kami(captain of the left division of middle palace guards).
in february,1391,he served concurrently as the kubo(governor-general)of mutsu province and dewa province.
in march,1392,he was promoted to jusanmi(junior third rank).
he remained in the position of sahyoe no kami.
