toyonori yamauchi
toyonori yamauchi(may 12,1846-july 13,1886)was a daimyo(japanese feudal lord)who lived during the end of the edo period.
he was the sixteenth(last)lord of the tosa domain.
marquess
he was the eleventh son of the twelfth lord toyoshige yamauchi.
his lawful wife was a daughter of nobuyuki mori(third son of narihito mori)and his second wife was a daughter of narinori uesugi.
his offspring include toyokage yamauchi(first son),toyoshizu yamauchi(third son),toyonaka yamauchi(fourth son)and a daughter(lawful wife of masuteru ozeki).
he was a cousin of sanetomi sanjyo.
his childhood name was kumagoro.
shikajiro.
his go(pseudonym)was hoyo.
he was born on may 12,1846.
his elder brother toyoteru yamauchi(thirteenth lord),toyoatsu yamauchi(fourteenth lord)died in succession in 1848 and he was seen as the successor as a younger brother but since he was only 3 years old,toyonobu(yodo)yamauchi,who was from a branch line,became the family head.
toyonobu was sent into early retirement as punishment during naosuke ii's ansei no taigoku(suppression of extremists by the shogunate)on february 26,1859 and toyonori succeeded as family head and became the lord of domain.
however,toyonobu was allowed out of his retirement in 1862 and toyonori did not take active part in ruling because the actual power was placed in toyobnobu's hands.
he received an secret imperial command for police escort in kyoto in 1862.
together with satsuma and chosu domains,he signed the return of lands and people to the emperor in 1869.
he worked to get a pardon for his father-in-law,narinori uesugi of the yonezawa domain when he was being chased by the imperial army,because of his commitment to the boshin civil war.
after haihan-chiken(abolition of feudal domains and establishment of prefectures),he contributed to the establishment of railway and bank projects.
he died on july 13,1886,at 41 years of age.
his grave is at shinyo-ji temple,tenjin-cho,kochi city,kochi prefecture.
he was succeeded by his first son,toyokage.
