yorisada toki
yorisada toki(1271-1339)was a busho(japanese military commander)who lived from the kamakura period to the period of the northern and southern courts(japan).
he was the seventh son of mitsusada toki of the toki clan.
his mother was a daughter of sadatoki hojo,a regent of the kamakura bakufu(japanese feudal government headed by a shogun).
his wife was a daughter of taira no muneyori.
he was the first shugo(provincial constable)of mino province under the muromachi bakufu.
he was hoki nyudo(lay-monk).
biography
the toki clan was a senior vassal based in mino,which is related to seiwa-genji(minamoto clan).
the clan was highly valued by the kamakura bakufu,and also had a connection with the hojo clan.
because yorisada's mother was a member of the hojo clan,he spent his youth in kamakura,where he devoutly believed high zen priests and had a close relationship with soseki muso among others.
soseki muso founded永保寺(tajimi city)in mino province.
yorisada often practiced kisha(to shoot an arrow on horseback)and also excelled as a kajin(waka[japanese poetry]poet),leaving his waka in "senzaishu" (poem collection of a thousand years)and other records.
in 1324,a family(including yorikazu toki)of the toki clan was involved in the first plan for anti-shogunate against emperor godaigo(shochu disturbance).
this was perceived by rokuhara tandai(an administrative and judicial agency in rokuhara,kyoto),and as a result,kuninaga tajimi(mino genji[the minamoto clan])and other members were searched out and destroyed.
yorisada,who was the soryo(heir)of the toki clan,was also suspected by the bakufu.
in "taiheiki" (the record of the great peace),yorisada fight soldiers of rokuhara tandai and commits suicide.
yorisada,however,was alive and became the shugo of mino province after being actively involved in later wars;hence,there is a confusion in the descriptions of "taiheiki."
in 1333,receiving a mikotonori(imperial edict)from emperor godaigo,yorisada took up arms to attack the shogunate and joined the army of takauji ashikaga.
under the government of the state by the immediate direction(administration)of emperor godaigo(kenmu restoration),yorisada was appointed the shugo of mino province.
for the subsequent two hundred years,the shugo of mino province was inherited by the toki clan.
when takauji ashikaga took up arms against the new kenmu government,which successively caused misgovernment,yorisada and his legitimate son,yorito toki,followed takauji ashikaga and provided many distinguished war services in the battles against the southern court(japan).
the toki clan placed its offshoots across mino province,forming a strong armed group called 'kikyo ikki(uprising),' and became a force that supports the army of the bakufu.
yorisada was referred to as 'second to goikke(head and branch family of ashikaga)and the head of other families' and was highly valued in the muromachi shogunate.
yorisada is famous for being a devout believer of zen and founding many temples in mino province.
yorisada was succeeded by dauntless yorito,who was known as a basara daimyo(unconventional warrior),but he was executed for running riot against emperor kogen.
the soryo of the toki clan was succeeded by yorisada's grandson,yoriyasu toki,after yoriaki toki,yorisada's eleventh son(yoriaki is not generally counted as the second in the succession because of his short term.)
the toki clan was at its zenith in the time of yoriyasu,with the governing area of the shugo covering owari province and ise province in addition to mino.
