noriyasu matsudaira
noriyasu matsudaira(1748-july 30,1826)was a daimyo(japanese feudal lord)and politician during the late edo period.
he was the fourth lord of the iwamura domain in mino province.
he was a roju(member of the shogun's council of elders).
he was the fifth generation of the ogyu-matsudaira family of the iwamura domain.
he was the eighth son of totsuna kutsuki,the lord of the fukuchiyama domain in tanba province.
his mother was originally from the asada clan(kagakuin).
his lawful wife was the daughter of yasuyoshi matsudaira.
his children were noritomo matsudaira(legitimate child of the iwamura domain in mino province)(the eldest son),noriyoshi matsudaira(the second son),and noritoki matsudaira(the third son).
his childhood name was sogoro,and his official rank was kawachi no kuni no kami(governor of kawachi province)at first,and later he was called noto no kuni no kami(governor of noto province).
he was also said to be born on january 18,1750.
the children of norimori matsudaira,the eldest son norikuni and the second son norito matsudaira,died early,so he was adopted by the iwamura domain of mino province since his real father totsuna was originally from the ogyu-matsudaira family of the iwamura domain.
he succeeded to the position of family head due to his foster father norimori's retirement in 1781.
he held various posts such as sojaban(an official in charge of ceremonies),wakadoshiyori(a managerial position in the edo bakufu),osaka jodai(the keeper of osaka-jo castle),and nishinomaru roju.
he died in 1826.
since his eldest son noritomo died early,his second son noriyoshi succeeded to the position of family head.
brief personal history
he was born as the eighth son of totsuna katsuki in 1748.
he was adopted by norimori matsudaira in january,1771.
he was appointed as jugoinoge(junior fifth rank,lower grade),kawachino kuni no kami in january,1872.
he married the daughter of yasuyoshi matsudaira in may,1773.
he succeeded to the position of family head of the iwamura domain due to his foster father's retirement in april,1781.
he changed his post to noto no kuni no kami in 1783.
he became a sojaban in june,1784.
he became a nishinomaru wakadoshiyori in august,1789.
he became a honmaru wakadoshiyori in september,1804.
he became the osaka jodai in november,1806.
he was promoted to jushiinoge(junior fourth rank,lower grade).
he became a nishinomaru roju in july,1810.
he became a jiju(a chamberlain).
he died on july 30,1826 while serving his term.
he died at the age of 78.
tomb:at shunshoin in kanei-ji temple
his homyo(a name given to a person who enters the buddhist priesthood)was shotsuinden juntei tokukei daikoji.
