imperial prince munetaka
imperial prince munetaka(december 22,1242-september 9,1274)was the 6th seii taishogun(literally, "great general who subdues the barbarians")of the kamakura shogunate,and the first from the imperial family.
he was a son of emperor gosaga.
his mother,toshi,was a daughter of taira no munemoto,the kurodo moku no kami(the head of the imperial archives,construction and lumber supplies.)
emperor gofukakusa and emperor kameyama were his younger brothers by a different mother.
personal history
after the previous shogun,fujiwara no yoritsugu,was sent back to kyoto,he was brought to kamakura in may 1252 and made seii taishogun at the age of 11.
although the oldest son of emperor gosaga and favored by his father,his mother's low status meant he had little chance of ascending the throne,leading the emperor to worry about his future.
meanwhile,the regent for the shogun,tokiyori hojo,sensing a crisis in the fact that michiie kujo(yoritsugu's grandfather)controlled both the shogun family and the regent families and wanting to eliminate the kujo clan from the political world,intervened in the shogunate government.
at this point,the emperor and tokiyori shared a mutual interest,leading to the birth of the 'imperial shogun.'
however,by this time the shoguns had already become puppets of the hojo clan and the shogun had no power at all.
therefore he threw himself into creating waka poetry and holding utakai(waka parties.)
as a result,the kadan(waka poetry world)centering on the samurai families in kamakura flourished,producing talented gokenin(shogunate vassals)turned waka poets such as mototsuna goto and tadakage shimazu.
the kamakura kadan influenced the selection of the compilers of the "shokukokin wakashu," with the prince himself having the most entries.
in 1266,he was dismissed as shogun and sent back to kyoto,being suspected of treason.
imperial prince koreyasu,his son and heir,became the next shogun.
after he returned to kyoto,he had a certain amount of power within the imperial court and colluded with anti-hojo aristocrats to concentrate power in him.
but pro-hojo aristocrats reported their activities to the government in kamakura.
in addition,in 1272,after the death of cloistered emperor gosaga,he was implicated in the noritoki hojo led 'february rebellion,' made to enter the priesthood and banished to sadogashima island.
his buddhist name was kakue(written覚恵).
he also used the name gyosho(written行証or行勝).
authentic calligraphy of imperial prince munetaka
there are many examples of what is considered to be prince munetaka's calligraphy including the arisugawa kire(fragment),the saibara kire,the kokinshu kire,and the kagurauta kire.
in fact,many of them are classic examples of the prince's much-loved heian period calligraphy and it is unclear which are imperial prince munetaka's authentic calligraphy.
however,his reputation as a great calligrapher is unchallenged.
chronology of government posts and ranks
lunar calendar used for dates.
january 28,1244:named prince by the emperor.
january 8,1252:coming-of-age ceremony.
given the rank of sanbon,the third rank for princes.
april 1:named seii taishogun by the emperor.
september 17,1265:promoted to the rank of ippon,the highest rank for princes,and made nakatsukasa-kyo(minister of the ministry of central affairs).
july 20,1266:resigned from the position of seii taishogun.
