sugano no mamichi
sugano no mamichi(741-july 23,814)was a court noble in the early heian period.
a son of tsu no yamamori,who was a descendant of kurusu-o(kinkyushu-o),the fourteenth king of baekje.
his kabane(official status title)was tsu no muraji and later sugano no ason.
jusanmi(junior third rank)and councilor.
career
he was appointed as junior private secretary and ranked gejugoinoge(local junior fifth rank,lower grade).
during this period,he served as a local official such as shosakan(deputy official of the fourth rank)in omi province,daijo(senior secretary)in the same province and assistant governor of settsu province.
on the occasion of investiture of imperial prince ate(later emperor heizei),he was appointed as togu gakushi(teacher of the classics of the crown prince).
he submitted the change of kabane from muraji to ason,and was granted the kabane of sugano no ason.
he was deeply trusted by emperor kanmu,and he worked in important posts including sadaiben(major controller of the left),sahyoe no kami(captain of the left division of middle palace guards)and saeji no kami(captain of the left division of imperial guards),as well as togu gakushi,and also got deeply involved with the project to transfer the capital to heian-kyo as zogu no suke(assistant master of ministry of making and mending palaces).
in 805,he was raised to a court noble as councilor.
in 806,he had so-called 'tokusei ronso(argument over virtuous government)' with fujiwara no otsugu in front of emperor kanmu,and although he strongly opposed otsugu's insistence to cease the military affairs and construction in order to reduce farmers' burdens,the emperor adopted otsugu's insistence and canceled the punitive expedition to ezo and construction of heian-kyo palace
in 806,when emperor heizei ascended the throne,he was promoted to shoshiinojo(senior fourth rank,upper grade),and he was appointed as sanin-do road kansatsushi(inspector)in the following year 807,when the kansatsushi system was established,and then in 809 he was ranked jusanmi(junior third rank)as tokai-do road kansatsushi.
he resigned in 811 during the period of emperor saga.
mamichi edited "shoku nihongi" (chronicle of japan continued)with fujiwara no tsugutada and akishino no yasuhito,and completed all the 40 volumes in 797.
and it is said that he was busy editing kyakushiki(regulations and laws)with fujiwara no uchimaro by the order of emperor kanmu,although it was incomplete.
