kanetoki hojo
kanetoki hojo(year of birth unknown-july 26,1263)was a member of the hojo clan from the mid kamakura period.
his father was aritoki hojo,who was a son of the second regent of the kamakura bakufu(japanese feudal government headed by a shogun)yoshitoki hojo.
he was commonly known as suruga shiro.
from 1252,he served the shogun imperial prince munetaka.
he died on july 26,1263.
kanetoki hojo(1264-november 3,1295)was a member of the hojo clan from the late kamakura period.
his father was muneyori hojo,who was a younger paternal half-brother of the eighth regent tokimune hojo.
he had a younger brother,munekata hojo.
after the death of his father,who had been nagato tandai(shogunal deputies in nagato),he became nagato no kuni shugo(provincial constable of nagato province)in 1280.
the following year,he was appointed to be ikoku keigoban yaku(military service imposed to gokenin(immediate vassals of the shogunate)in the kyushu region by bakufu in order to provide against the invasion of yuan dynasty)and went to harima province.
in 1284,which was three years after koan no eki(second mongol invasions),he was appointed to be settsu no kuni shugo(provincial constable of settsu province)and rokuhara tandai minamikata(southern chief of rokuhara tandai[an administrative and judicial agency in rokuhara,kyoto]).
although he went back to kamakura after resigning from the tandai(an administrative and judicial agency)position in february,1293,he was ordered by the regent sadatoki hojo in april the same year to go to kyushu with his army as the risk of a mongol invasion increased with the foreign mission's visit the year before.
kanetoki's dispatch to kyushu is sometimes considered as the first chinzei tandai(office of the military governor of kyushu).
just after kanetoki's arrival at hakata in kyushu,the heizenmon war occurred in kamakura and when the post horse telling the news came to hakata on june 15,kanetoki became busy dealing with gokenin in hakata,who had come from the kyushu region.
in april,1294,the following year,for 'a precaution against foreign countries,' kanetoki conducted signal fire training with gokenin of kyushu in the provinces of chikuzen and hizen,and made a report of the force and increased procurement,strengthening the security guard against foreign countries.
however,as there were no attacks from the yuan dynasty,which had been expected,he resigned from the chinzei tandai position on june 14,1295,and returned to kamakura.
the following year,sanemasa hojo was dispatched to be chinzei tandai.
although kanetoki joined the bakufu administration with an appointment as one of hyojoshu(a member of council of state),he died on november 3,1295,which was five months after his return to kamakura.
died at the age of 34.
career
date according to old lunar calendar
on an unknown date,he was appointed as shuri no suke(assistant officer of the office of palace repairs).
november 3,1284:he started to serve as rokuhara tandai minamikata of the bakufu.
march 12,1287:he was granted jugoinoge(junior fifth rank,lower grade)and was transferred to echigo no kami(provincial governor of echigo).
in august,he was appointed as rokuhara tandai kitakata(northern chief of rokuhara tandai).
march 7,1293:he was transferred to chinzei tandai.
april,1295:he resigned from the chinzei tandai position.
on may 11,he became a hyojoshu.
