tameuji nijo
tameuji nijo(1222-october 3,1286)was a court noble and poet in the mid kamakura period.
his father was fujiwara no tameie and his mother was the daughter of yoritsuna utsunomiya.
he was also known as fujiwara no tameuji.
his children are tameyo nijo,tameo nijo,tamezane nijo,tamekoto nijo,gensho(soi[priestly rank]),keiyu(hogen),misato(sogo[ranks and positions of priests]kofuku-ji betto[the head priest of kofuku-ji temple]),joi(hoin[the highest rank in the order of priesthood)at daigoji temple),快為(hoin),a daughter(ensenmonin no shindainagon)and others.
he was a direct descendant of the mikohidari family and the founder of the nijo family(the nijo school of poetry),the waka(japanese poetry)family.
he became sangi(councillor)in 1251,and then he was promoted to shonii gon dainagon(senior second rank,provisional chief councilor of state).
he learned waka(japanese poetry)from his father tameie.
he served daikakuji-to(imperial lineage starting with emperor kameyama)and became influential in poetry circles.
however,since he didn't get along with his brothers,tamenori kyogoku and tamesuke reizei,and his stepmother,abutsuni,the family was divided.
he participated in many utaawase(poetry contest),such as "kawaishautaawase" in 1243.
moreover,he presented poetry books,such as "hoji onhyakushu" and "kochuhyakushu," and in 1278,submitted "shoku shui wakashu" (12th imperial anthology)to the emperor for inspection
moreover,he left many waka in chokusen wakashu(anthology of japanese poetry compiled by imperial command),such as "shoku-gosen wakashu" (later imperial poetic anthology)and private wakashu(a collection of japanese poetry),such as "shin wakashu"(a collection of poetry by the utsunomiya clan and concerned persons).
his poetical style is described as clear and elegant.
"dainagon tameuji shu" is a collection of poems by tameuji and his son tameyo,edited after his time.
he was also excellent at renga.
his holographic diary,written from october to december(old calendar),1270,is collected at shigure-tei bunko library of the reizei family.
according to the dairy written by a court noble of the same period,tameuji was a brilliant retainer of imperial court.
the diary portrayed his hard working days.
he became a buddhist priest in 1285 and was called kakua as his homyo(buddhist name given to a person who has died or has entered the priesthood).
he deceased on october 3,1286.
his age at death was 65.
he disputed with abutsuni about the occupancy of hosokawa no sho estate in harima province(miki city,hyogo prefecture).
it is said that he left the capital,went to kamakura and died in kamakura.
