noritomo kitabatake
noritomo kitabatake(1423-april 22,1471)was a kugyo(court noble)lived in the middle of the muromachi period.
he was the fourth family head of the kitabatake family whose members served as ise kokushi(an officer of ise province)for generations,as well as the shugo daimyo(provincial military governor that became daimyo,japanese feudal lord)of ise province.
he was the son of mitsumasa kitabatake
he assumed the post of ise kokushi at age 19,and bore the name of noritomo(教具in chinese characters)by being given a chinese character "教" from the shogun yoshinori ashikaga(足利義教in chinese characters):to be granted a character of master's name was honor in those days.
when the kakitsu war occurred in 1441,he killed noriyasu akamatsu(the son of mitsusuke akamatsu),who had escaped inside of ise province,to show his deference to bakufu(japanese feudal government headed by a shogun).
in 1448,he had a fight with the naganokudo family over the territory.
in 1451,he was conferred to shoshii(senior fourth rank)and appointed to sangi(councilor).
on january 31,1452,he was conferred to the jusanmi(junior third rank).
in 1453,he was conferred to shonii(senior second rank).
in march 1456,he was appointed to gon chunagon(a provisional vice-councilor of state).
in 1458,he was conferred to junii(junior second rank).
in the onin war in 1467,he harbored yoshimi ashikaga,who came to ise province after being saved from the war.
the kitabatake clan entered the war on the 'eastern' army side,but noritomo,who was staying in hasedera temple at that time,did not participate in the war unfolded inside the capital,because yoshimasa ashikaga prohibited him from going to the capital.
when masayasu toki,shugo(military governor)of ise province entered the province in february 1468,noritomo attacked masayasu toki's troops and conquered the castles of the wakamatsu,yanagi and kusubaru clans.
in august 1469,he was appointed to gon dainagon(a provisional chief councilor of state).
he started moving northward in 1470,and reached as far as mie country and asake country.
he died in ise province on april 22,1471.
he was 49 years old when he died.
it is believed that he succumbed to tumor.
