fujiwara no tadataka
fujiwara no tadataka(1102 august 26,1150)was a court noble of the end of heian period.
he was the eldest son of shuri no daibu(master of the office of palace repairs),fujiwara no mototaka(great-grandson of gon dainagon(provisional chief councilor of state),fujiwara no tsunesuke.)
his mother was a daughter of fujiwara no nagatada.
his wife was a daughter of fujiwara no akiyori.
among his children are fujiwara no motonari,fujiwara no nobuyori and fujiwara no ieyori,etc.
in 1111,he was appointed to tanba no kuni no kami(governor of tanba province)at the age of only 10.
after that,he was ranked to jugoinojo(junior fifth rank,upper grade)in 1114,and he filled successively the posts of uhyoe no suke(assistant captain of the right division of middle palace guards)in 1116,tajima no kuni no kami(governor of tajima province)and shogoinoge(senior fifth rank,lower grade)in 1118,ukone no shosho(minor captain of the right division of inner palace guards)and sakone no shosho(minor captain of the left division of inner palace guards)in 1122,jushiinoge(junior forth rank,lower grade)in 1124,jushiijo(junior fourth rank,upper grade)and bicchu no kuni no kami(governor of bicchu province)in 1126,and he resigned the post of minor captain in 1127.
further,he was promoted to shoshiinoge(senior fourth rank,lower grade)and daizen no daibu(master of the palace table)in 1128,iyo no kuni no kami(governor of iyo province)in 1131,harima no kuni no kami(governor of harima province)in 1139,iyo no kuni no kami again and kogogu no suke(person who is in charge of the things about the empress)in 1141,and he resigned daizen no daibu in 1143.
he was appointed to kura no kami(chief of kuraryo,bureau of palace storehouses)and shoshiinojo(senior fourth rank upper grade)in 1145,and in 1148,he became jusanmi(junior third rank),okura kyo(minister of the treasury)and a kugyo(court noble)at the of 47.
in 1149,he was appointed to kogo no miya gon no daibu(provisional master of the empress's household)and mimasaka no kuni gon no kami(provisional governor of mimasaka province.)
he was further posted to nenyo(functionaries who during this time took the responsibility for running the actual affairs of the various central government offices)of in no cho(the retired emperor's office)and played an active role as a typical close aide at the time of in ruling period of emperor toba.
as he was fond of falconry and also superior at equestrian art,he was acknowledged by people in martial arts,and he broadly exchanged with bujin(warriors)such as taira no tadamori.
fujiwara no shinzei wrote in "honcho seiki(chronicle of imperial reigns)" that "his house became wealthy after he worked as the governor of many provinces.
as is his nature,he loves falcons and dogs.
he also loves charity for others and did not expect anything in return.
the world admires his attitudes" and lauded tadataka's comprehensive mind.
in the later year,his son nobuyori who took over his father's nature to love "bu" (military arts)kept his name in the history as the ringleader of the heiji war.
