sanehiro toin
sanehiro toin(1409-year of death unknown)was a kugyo(court noble)who lived during the muromachi period.
he served two emperors,emperor gohanazono(the 102nd)and emperor gotsuchimikado(the 103rd),and advanced to sadaijin(minister of the left)at the rank of juichii(junior first rank).
he was named sanehiro initially.
he was called higashiyama-nyudo-safu(literally,a priest in mt.higashi who was once sadaijin-minister of the left.
his father was mitsusue toin,udaijin(minister of the interior).
kinkazu toin,gon dainagon(a provisional chief councilor of state),was his son.
he was awarded the rank of jusanmi(junior third rank),in 1424 becoming a kugyo,after assuming sakone no chujo(a middle captain of the left division of inner palace guards)and iyo no gon no kami(a provisional governor of iyo province).
although appointed to gon chunagon(provisional vice-councilor of state)in 1428,he was censured by the emperor in the following year and was dismissed from the post once.
in 1430,he was pardoned and attended the court again,and was appointed to gon chunagon anew.
in 1432,he was promoted to gon dainagon.
after assuming naikyobo no betto(the chief of naikyobo,a place in imperial palace where singing and dancing was taught),he was appointed to ukone no daisho(the major captain of the right division of inner palace guards)and umaryo gogen(an inspector of the right division of bureau of horses)in 1442.
in 1446,he was appointed to naidaijin(minister of the interior),and assumed sakone no daisho(the major captain of the left division of inner palace guards)additionally in the next year.
in 1448,he resigned from sakone no daisho alone.
in 1450,he was awarded juichii(junior first rank),but resigned from udaijin within the same year.
he became udaijin(minister of the right)in 1454,and was appointed to sadaijin(minister of the left)in 1455.
however,he resigned from the post within the same year.
after this,he moved to the mt.higashi area,and began a retired and quiet life.
