norikata uesugi
a member of yamanouchi-uesugi family in the period of the northern and southern courts(japan).
a member of inukake-uesugi family in the muromachi period.
a member of yamanouchi-uesugi family in the edo period.
norikata uesugi(yamanouchi-uesugi family)
norikata uesugi(1335-november 17,1394)is a busho(japanese military commander)from the period of the northern and southern courts(japan)to the early muromachi period.
son of noriaki uesugi,and younger brother of yoshinori uesugi and noriharu uesugi(or older brother of noriharu).
father of norisada uesugi and fusakata uesugi.
in 1376,he received the household and the like from his brother yoshinori sick in bed,and in april,1378 just before yoshinori's death,noriharu's post of kozuke shugoshiki(military governor of kozuke)and noriharu's territory were transferred for norikata to take over.
after yoshinori's death,noriharu was appointed as kanto kanrei(a shogunal deputy for the kanto region),but the family estate of yamanouchi-uesugi was given to norikata.
a year later on march 7,1379 noriharu committed suicide.
it is said that he sacrificed his life to try and stop ujimitsu ashikaga from attacking kyoto by taking advantage of the koryaku coup.
in the same year around march 21,norikata was sent to the capital(kyoto)as a taisho(general)of kanto army(armed forces in kanto region)but did not actually go to the capital,instead stayed in mishima,izu province.
the same year april 15,he was appointed to serve as kanto kanrei,and on the 28th,he returned back to kamakura.
in may,the post of kozuke shugoshiki maintained by noriharu came to be held by norikata.
he retired from the post of chief adviser in january 1382,but got reassigned the same year in june.
he was known to be a distinguished busho,and assisted kamakura kubo(governor-general of the kanto region),ujimitsu,and succeeded in suppressing the rebellion of yoshimasa oyama and the rebellion by his son wakainumaru oyama.
due to these accomplishments,he was given the position of shugoshiki(military governor)for kozuke province,musashi province,izu province,awa province and shimotsuke province.
on april 22,1392,he retired from the post of chief adviser because of old age and illness.
he died on october 24,1394.
the age at death was 60.
his graveyard is located at meigetsu-in temple,which he erected himself in kamakura.
hogo is明月院天樹道合.
norikata uesugi(inukake-uesugi family).
norikata uesugi(1399-january 27,1417)is a person in the muromachi period.
a member of the uesugi clan(inukake-uesugi family).
son of zenshu uesugi.
iyo no kami(governor of iyo province).
it is said that during the war of zenshu uesugi,he was sent as a envoy to mochiuji ashikaga so as to put mochiuji off his guard and told him about his father's illness(feigned illness).
after the banishment of mochiuji from kamakura,he joined the mochinaka ashikaga troops as an assistant and headed for musashi province to attack the samurai warriors of the mochiuji side,but was defeated and returned back to kamakura.
the riot eventually failed,and norikata committed suicide in kamakura along with his father mochinaka and many other family members.
norikata uesugi(edo period).
norikata uesugi(dates of birth and death are unknown)is a person in the edo period.
he is a son of norikuni uesugi,and great-grandchild of norimasa uesugi of yamauchi-uesugi family.
it is said that he was also called norikata kuramoto.
his son is norihide uesugi.
