ujiyori omori
ujiyori omori(year of birth unknown-september 25,1494)was a person from the muromachi period.
vassal for the ogigayatsu-uesugi clan.
head of the omori clan.
son of yoriharu omori.
father to saneyori omori,fujiyori omori and a daughter(yoshiatsu miura's mother).
lord of odawara-jo castle.
later,lord of iwahara-jo castle.
childhood name was yoichi.
his pseudonym was kiseian.
although he at first served mochiuji ashikaga of kamakura kubo(govener-general of the kanto region),ujiyori became loyal to the muromachi shogunate during the eikyo war,coming under the command of the uesugi clan.
however,his younger brother noriyori omori was extremely dissatisfied with this decision and fiercely opposed him.
furthermore,masatomo ashikaga of horigoe kubo(the shogunal deputy based in horigoe,izu province)also alienated ujiyori and spoke badly about him to his brother,the seii taishogun(literally,the great general that subdues barbarians)yoshimasa ashikaga.
with the help and advice of dokan ota who was concerned,ujiyori visited the capital to receive yoshimasa's pardon in 1464,finally ending the internal discord within the omori clan in 1478.
he served sadamasa uesugi and supported the succession of the sagami-miura clan by having his daughter marry sadamasa's elder brother takahira miura.
after the death of dokan ota ujiyori became the chief vassal with tremendous influence;however,sadamasa's political style,such as tying a peace accord with kogakubo shigeuji ashikaga only to immediately revoke it,began to invite estrangement from his vassals.
concerned with the future of the ogigayatsu-uesugi clan,ujiyori sent a letter of remonstration to sadamasa called 'omori's teachings.'
he confirmed his rule over western sagami province by fixing up the castle town of odawara,and put a lot of effort into the protection of the soto sect of zen buddhism.
later,he passed odawara-jo castle on to his heir saneyori and personally protected iwahara-jo castle.
ujirori died in 1494.
because saneyori had preceded him in death,the family reins were passed on to saneyori's younger brother fujiyori.
