fujiwara no hoshi
fujiwara no hoshi(yoshiko)(year of birth unknown-september 11,967)was the nyogo(consort)of emperor murakami and the daughter of fujiwara no morotada and the ninth daughter of fujiwara no sadakata.
since she was granted the residence of senyoden,she was called "senyoden no nyogo" (the nyogo of senyoden).
in addition,she was called "koichijo nyogo" and "taisho no miyasudokoro(lady of the bedchamber)."
her children were imperial princes masahira and nagahira.
since her eldest child,imperial prince masahira,was born in 956,she probably underwent judai(an imperial consort's bridal entry into court)before that year.
she was declared nyogo senge(imperial proclamation to become nyogo)in october 958.
she began to be called senyoden no nyogo.
she received the ranks of shogoi(senior fifth rank)in february 959 and jushinoge(junior fourth rank,lower grade)in january 962.
in addition,she gave birth to imperial prince nagahira in 965.
she had a beauty that far surpassed others and had the corner of her eyes pointing a little down and very long black hair.
while there were some exaggerations, "okagami" (the great mirror)described her appearance as 'when she climbed into the cart,her body was in the vehicle but the end of her hair was at the pillar of the main building.'
emperor murakami gave her deep affection.
chugu(empress)anshi fujiwara was deeply jealous about this and "okagami" recorded an episode where she threw a piece of pottery at hoshi.
she was also very intelligent,and completely memorized twenty volumes of "kokin wakashu" (a collection of ancient and modern japanese poetry).
emperor murakami heard of this rumor and on the day of abstinence tested whether she had truly memorized it.
the twentieth paragraph of the "makura no soshi" (the pillow book)stated that empress fujiwara no teishi mentioned that hoshi memorized it without a mistake.
she hosted senyoden nyogo nadeshiko awase(dianthus superbus match of senyoden no nyogo)in may 956.
"gyokuyo wakashu" (jeweled leaves collection)and "shokukokin wakashu" (collection of ancient and modern japanese poetry continued)each contain one of her poems.
when chugu anshi passed away,the affection on her disappeared.
her sons died young or were weak from illness and could not become togu(crown princes).
she passed away approximately two months after the death of emperor murakami.
