okogo no tsubone
okogo no tsubone(1590-june 4,1615)was a woman who lived during the sengoku period(period of warring states)and the early edo period.
she was a maidservant to yodo-dono(lady yodo),and later to hideyori toyotomi,and ranked as a dai-joro(the upper grade ladies-in-waiting for sento[the palace for a retired emperor]and sekkan-ke[the families which produced regents]).
she was also called 'chujo,' 'bensaisyo ako dai-joro,' 'wago no kata,' or 'wago no tsubone.'
her name was 'kiku.'
his father was sadatame ise(according to "kansei compilation of genealogies of vassals in edo bakufu[japanese feudal government headed by a shogun]")while it is also said that her father was sadakage ise.
another belief is that his father was sadayoshi ise,and her mother was the eldest daughter or the granddaughter of hisahide matsunaga.
the definition of 'dai-joro'
the word 'joro' refers to court ladies in joganden(imperial residence for sewing),naishi no tsukasa(female secretaries to an emperor),or naishi no suke(court ladies of higher ranks)of the second or third rank,in other words,the daughters or granddaughters of daijin(councils of the imperial court)who were allowed to put on the colors of the imperial families.
joro was commonly called "dainagon no tsubone," "chunagon no tsubone," "saemon no kami," "sochi," "ichii no tsubone," "nii no tsubone," "sanmi no tsubone," and so on,whereas joro of slightly lower ranks were commonly called "azechi."
even if ladies were ranked the third rank or higher,they were prohibited from using the style of joro if they were not allowed to put on the colors of the imperial families.
in particular, 'dai-joro' refers to court ladies of higher ranks who served in the sento palace(the palace for a retired emperor)or for shippei-ke,or sekkan-ke(the families which produced regents[the toyotomi clan was considered one of sekkan-ke at that time.])
the above definition was excerpted from "guide to titles of officials."
biography
she started serving hideyori at the age of 12.
in the following year,she accompanied lord hideyori to the imperial palace in his sedan chair.
her visit to the imperial palace was criticized by the court nobles because she was a daughter from the warrior class.
however,a decree by ex-emperor yokoin made it possible for her to visit the imperial palace as a special case without appointing adoptive parents because she was a descendant of taira no shigemori.
according to "kansei compilation of genealogies of vassals in edo bakufu(japanese feudal government headed by a shogun)," kiku at first 'entered the service of' lady yodo and visited the imperial palace as a member of a retinue of dai-joro.
all maidservants who were commoners took court nobles as adoptive parents.
however,kiku did not have an adoptive father,and was appointed as dai-joro by imperial decree.
she served in the imperial court for three months and was granted the official court rank 'bensaisyo ako dai-joro.'
during the osaka no jin(the siege of osaka),okogo no tsubone committed suicide(at the age of 36)together with lord hideyori and lady yodo inside the food storehouse in the gardening quarter of the(osaka)castle.
she was enshrined as one of '32 loyal retainers' at a small shrine in osaka-jo castle.
her ingo(a title of respect given to close female relatives of the emperor or a woman of comparable standing)is 'seishoin.'
her ancestral temples are kitano-jinja shrine and sheisho-in temple.
letters written by lady yodo
there are letters written by lady yodo with a signature that can be read 'ako' (alternative pronunciation of 'oko').
there is a belief that these letters were written by kiku,or that lady yodo wrote these letters under the name of kiku.
there is another belief that the signature is not 'ako' but 'yoto.'
tadachika kuwata insists that these letters were written by a maidservant.
the letters with a signature that can be read 'ako' are as follows:
1.a letter written by lady yodo(in july 1604)addressed to shuyo shonin(shuyo,a female bonze of rank),which was housed in keko-in convent in ise province.
the letter is about the renovation of uji-bashi bridge.
it is characterized by its celebration of the birth of iemitsu tokugawa.
2.a letter written by lady yodo(in 1606)addressed to takatsugu kyogoku,which is housed in chizen-in temple.
it is personal communication addressed to takatsugu.
it is a letter of congratulation to tadataka kyogoku..
