mototsuna yasutomi
mototsuna yasutomi was a japanese military commander who lived during the muromachi period.
he was a kasai(main retainer)as well as a steward in the hosokawa clan.
he was from the yasutomi clan,a chief vassal clan of the hosokawa-keicho family,that handed down the position of shugodai(deputy of shugo,provincial constable)of the eastern region of sanuki province for generations;additionally,he was a soryo(heir)of the clan.
mototsuna served katsumoto hosokawa and attended to him as a kasai in kyoto.
once the onin war started in 1467,mototsuna took part in various battles in kyoto together with the kagawa clan as the head of an army from sanuki province.
additionally,it is thought that the yasutomi clan also headed the noda clan that was from nishioka,yamashiro province,as their vassal,and there are various documents stating that mototsuna took military action together with the noda clan.
as the tide of the war turned in favor of the western camp,the western camp made an all-out attack on shokoku-ji temple,which was the headquarters of the eastern camp,in november 1467(this battle is called the battle of shokoku-ji.)
although mototsuna attempted to defend the shokoku-ji temple with 3,000 soldiers against the attack,part of buddhist priests who communicated secretly with the western camp set fire to the inside of the temple,and consequently,the eastern camp became upset and collapsed completely.
mototsuna fought to the last man against the enemy's fierce attack,however,he and his younger brother moritsugu,died a fierce death in battle.
the battle of shokoku-ji was one of the fiercest battles of the onin war,and 'oninki' (the record of the onin war)gives a detailed description of the entire story of this battle.
it is said that mototsuna enjoyed the fullest confidence of katsumoto hosokawa,and katsumoto was very heartbroken over mototsuna's death in the battle.
also,commanders of the eastern camp wept over his death.
personal profile and anecdotes
there is a yasutomi family that claims to have descended from mototsuna in tsuru county,yamanashi prefecture.
their family tree has the text '安富民部丞源元綱' (yasutomi minbu no jo[the officer of popular affairs]minamoto no mototsuna).
mototsuna was in fact killed in the onin war,but some historical materials created during early-modern times such as the 'nankai tsuki' (records of the harbors in the southern coast)record that mototsuna worked in sanuki province during the 16th century.
this is because other yasutomi clans were confused with mototsuna,who was well known for his achievement in the onin war.
