shigenari ishida
shigenari ishida(1589?-1641?)was the second son of mitsunari ishida.
his mother was kogetsuin,who was a daughter of yoritada uda.
his older brother was shigeie ishida and his younger sister was tatsuhime(wife of nobuhira tsugaru).
his official court rank was hayato no kami(the chief of the hayato[the imperial guards]).
aside from shigenari,he was also known as gengo sugiyama and nibe toshinari sugiyama.
his legitimate wife was a daughter in the kutsuki clan and gave birth to yoshinari sugiyama and kamon ishida,and his second wife was a daughter in the tsuge clan and gave birth to kahei nariyasu sugiyama.
he was a servant of hideyori toyotomi.
after he learned that the western force for which his father fought,had lost badly to the eastern force in the battle of sekigahara in 1600 and also that sawayama castle had fallen,with the help of nobutake tsugaru,he escaped to tsugaru in mutsu province with jinnai tsuyama who was the father of his nanny and others.
he then started to call himself gengo sugiyama and lived in seclusion in fukami village under the protection of the tsugaru clan.
although it is commonly believed that he died young on may 20,1610,there is another convincing theory that he lived in seclusion until 1610,left for to the capital,and died in 1641 at the age of 53.
the "sugiyama family lineage" for the third son kahei nariyasu sugiyama says that shigenari served takatora todo and died in ise,but whether or not this statement is true is unknown.
the first son,yoshinari sugiyama,married a daughter of nobuhira tsugaru,the lord of hirosaki domain,and was appointed to the position of karo(chief retainer).
the descendants of the sugiyama family continued to serve as senior vassals of the hirosaki clan.
although there is no record that mitsunari shida was allowed to use the family name toyotomi,at sotoku-ji temple(in hirosaki city,aomori prefecture),succesive gravestones of the sugiyama family members such as shigenori are said to have that family name engraved on them(the kinoshita clan,the family which kodai-in was from,was the only family that officially used the family name toyotomi in the edo period).
