tomosada uesugi
tomosada uesugi
tomosada uesugi was a person who lived in the period of the northern and southern courts.
he was the head of the futahashi/nihashi(二橋)-uesugi family(the origin of the hachijo-uesugi and ogigayatsu-uesugi families).
tomosada uesugi was a person who lived in the sengoku period(period of warring states).
he was the head of the ogigayatsu-uesugi family.
tomosada uesugi was a person who lived in the sengoku period(period of warring states).
he was the head of the sanponji-uesugi family.
tomosada uesugi(of the futahashi/nihashi(二橋)-uesugi family)
tomosada uesugi was a warlord who lived in the period of the northern and southern courts.
he was born the son of shigeaki uesugi in 1321.
he suceeded his father,shigeaki,as head of the family.
he served takauji ashikaga and tadayoshi ashikaga,who were brothers,and held important posts(such as the military governorship of tango province,judicial appointments,etc.)in the muromachi bakufu(japanese feudal government headed by a shogun)while residing in kyoto.
he had also served,along with ko no moronao,as a steward to takauji;however,he sided with tadayoshi at the outbreak of the kanno disturbance,fighting against takauji and moronao.
it seems,however,that tomosada did not get along with shigeyoshi uesugi or noriaki uesugi,each of whom had also sided with tadayoshi.
in fact,he also took actions that might be seen as indicating that he sided with takauji.
for instance,tomosada met with yoshiakira ashikaga,takauji's eldest son,who had visited tomosada's residence after the outbreak of the disturbance(on september 8,1350, "gion shigyonikki" (documents containing records of affairs and buddhist services at yasaka-jinja shrine)).
tomosada died in shinano province in 1352.
opinion is divided on the cause of his death:some say he died of illness,and others say he was killed in battle.
he was 32 year old.
tomosada uesugi(of the sanponji-uesugi family)
tomosada uesugi was a warlord who lived in the mid-muromachi period.
he is assumed to be the founder of the sanponji-uesugi family,one of the branches of the uesugi family that held the office of the military governorship of echigo province.
some sources claim that fudosan-jo castle was built by tomosada;however,others claim that it was built by sadatane,who is assumed to have been tomosada's son.
the genealogy of the sanponji-uesugi family is not clear;therefore,it is not known whether they were related to sadanaga uesugi or takanaga(kagenaga)uesugi,who served the nagao clan in the sengoku period.
tomosada uesugi(of the ogigayatsu-uesugi family)
tomosada uesugi was a daimyo(japanese territorial lord)who ruled musashi province during the sengoku period.
he was the de facto final head of the ogigayatsu-uesugi family.
he was born the son of tomoki uesugi in 1525.
after the death of his father in may 1525,he suceeded his father as head of the family.
ujitsuna hojo,however,viewed the succession by the young tomosada to the head of the family as an opportune moment,and launched an attack on kawagoe-jo castle in august,routing tomosada.
tomosada subsequently took up residence at matsuyama-jo castle,in musashi province.
then he built a castle at kandaiji,katakura,tachibana-gun in musashi province(kandaiji-jo castle)as a forification against the hojo clan.
in 1541,tomosada made peace with norimasa uesugi of the yamanouchi-uesugi family,an old enemy with whom he had been in conflict for years,whereby he was able to counter potential aggression by ujiyasu hojo.
in 1545,he entered into an alliance with norimasa uesugi,haruuji ashikaga(one of the kogakubo,who were descendants of one of the ashikaga families and held the office of the regional administrator in kanto),and others to assemble a vast allied force consisting of some 80 thousand soldiers,and proceeded to attack kawagoe-jo castle in concert with yoshimoto imagawa,the ruler of suruga province.
though tsunashige hojo,the lord of kawagoe-jo castle,put up a fight,the castle was on the brink of falling to the enemy.
on may 29,1546,however,ujiyasu,who had made haste for kawagoe-jo castle intending to attack the enemy from the rear,launched a suprise assault on the allied forces.
in the battle of kawagoe-jo castle(the so-called night battle of kawagoe),though the ogigayatsu-uesugi force fought bravely,tomosada,the head of the ogigayatsu-uesugi family,died on the battlefield,and the remains of the allied forces were scattered,shattering tomosada's dream of recapturing kawagoe-jo castle.
tomosada was 22 years old.
the death of tomosada uesugi resulted in the extinction of the ogigayatsu-uesugi line.
for a while,norikatsu uesugi of a collateral branch of the ogigayatsu-uesugi family made efforts toward restoring the line with the support of kenshin uesugi;however,norikatsu surrendered to the gohojo clan after a short time.
