mitsuyo uramatsu
mitsuyo uramatsu(december 12,1736-august 31,1804)was a scholar of yusoku kojitsu(studies in ancient court and military practices and usages)and kugyo(high court noble),who lived during the edo period.
he was a son of mitsuhide karasumaru and an adopted child of masumitsu uramatsu.
sukeki hino was his younger brother.
his homyo(a buddhist name given to a person who has died or has entered the priesthood)was kozen.
since he,having a friendly tie with shikibu takenouchi,was involved in the horeki incident and violated a taboo of the edo bakufu(japanese feudal government headed by a shogun),he was condemned to perpetuate house arrest.
afterwards,he was pardoned by the imperial order due to his contribution to the construction of the imperial palace through historical investigation.
"daidairizukosho" (historical research on design drawings of daidairi[the greater imperial palace]).
this book consists of 14 volumes with a japanese-style binding.
in 1788,he completed the book after 30 years of confinement at home.
written by mitsuyo uramatsu and proofed by hirosaki naito.
it is said that sadamoto fujii also helped the work.
the book includes 'kojitsu sosho' (the katsurano miya series of texts on the ancient practices).
the book includes 'zotei-kojitsu sosho' (the katsurano miya series of texts on the ancient practices,revised edition).
this is one of the best books for the study of daidairi(the greater imperial palace).
the book,which starts with the explanation about the zoning system of the both of sakyo ward(left side section)and ukyo ward(right side section)of heiankyo(the ancient capital in current kyoto),rikyu(imperial villas),residences of sekkan(regents and advisers to the emperor),gives not only general views but also precise descriptions on each of the palaces within the premise of daidairi by using the ancient drawings as references,and offers in-depth commentary.
this book covers a wide range of related items and is extremely well-prepared,for example,explaining the historical investigation on daijo-gu(temporary shrine prepared at daidairi for daijo-sai ceremony)in an appendix to the section of 'chodoin,' and describing the furnishing goods of shishiden(throne hall)and seiryoden(literally "limpid cool hall," an imperial summer palace)in appendices to the respective section of the two palaces.
strangely enough,the imperial palace went up in flames due to the great kyoto fire of the tenmei era in the very year the book was published,but thanks to uramatsu's great achievement,the new imperial palace was restored to its former shape in 1790.
