fujiwara no iemichi(gon chunagon(a provisional vice-councilor of state))
fujiwara no iemichi(1143-december 9,1187)was a kugyo(top court official)during the late heian period.
his original name was motoshige(基重).
he was a child of chunagon(vice-councilor of state)fujiwara no tadamoto.
he was adopted by dainagon(chief councilor of state)fujiwara no shigemichi and minamoto no moroyori's daughter,for whom his mother served as ie no nyobo(lady-in-waiting).
as his house was located on rokkaku-koji street,he called himself 'rokkaku.'
in 1145,he was appointed to jugoinoge(junior fifth rank,lower grade),and was promoted to jugoinojo(junior fifth rank,upper grade)in 1154.
he became sahyoe no suke(assistant captain of the left division of middle palace guards)and sakone no shosho(minor captain of the left division of inner palace guards)in 1156 and was promoted to shogoinoge(senior fifth rank,lower grade)in the following year.
in 1159,he was promoted to jushiinoge(junior fourth rank,lower grade).
in 1160,he became jushiinojo ukon e no chujo(junior fourth rank,upper grade,middle captain of the right palace guards).
in 1163,he was promoted to shoshiinoge(senior fourth rank,lower grade).
in 1164,he became tono chujo(the first secretary's captain)and served as an additional post of kurodo no to(head chamberlain)of the emperor nijo,which position he continued to hold after the emperor rokujo ascended the throne.
in 1166,he was appointed to sangi(councilor)and was promoted to jusanmi(junior third rank)two years later.
in 1172,he was promoted to shosanmi(senior third rank).
after the coup of the third year of jisho,he served an additional post of uhyoe no kami(captain of the right division of middle palace guards)replacing fujiwara no mitsuyoshi,and he was promoted to junii(junior second rank)in 1181 and switched to sahyoe no kami(captain of the left division of middle palace guards).
the following year,he was appointed to gon chunagon and uemon no kami(captain of the right division of outer palace guards)concurrently.
in 1184,he was promoted to shonii(senior second rank),and served an additional post of saemon no kami(captain of the left division of outer palace guards)in 1186.
he resigned gon chunagon and saemon no kami in the next year and died shortly after that.
he also excelled in fue(japanese flute)and waka,and two pieces are recorded in "senzai wakashu" (collection of japanese poems of a thousand years)and "shinkokin wakashu" (new collection of ancient and modern japanese poetry)respectively.
in addition,they say there was a diary called "kakkinki" (角金記)(derived from his common name 'rokkaku kingo' (六角金吾,who was emon no kami-captain of the division of outer palace guards),but it does not exist now.
