yorifusa ishido(石塔頼房)
yorifusa ishido was the third family head of the ishido clan.
the second child of yoshifusa.
he seems to became the legitimate child after his brother noriie died.
see also yorifusa ishido(石堂頼房).
he first worked with his father yoshifusa,and became nakatsukasa no taifu(senior assistant minister of the ministry of central affairs)in 1335.
until 1349,he obtained the job of jito shiki(manager and lord of a private estate)of houdanosho in harima province.
being found out the plan of ostracizing ko no moronao,tadayoshi ashikaga escaped to yamato province,and yorifusa compelled tadayoshi to submission to nancho(the southern dynasty of japan).
yorifusa received an imperial edict in 1350 and raised an army at mt.ikoma.
following takauji ashikaga,who ran off to mt.shosha(currently in himeji city,hyogo prefecture)in harima province,yorifusa destroyed takauji's army.
at the end of 1351,yorifusa was defeated the battle of mt.satta in suruga province.
then tadayoshi died and yorifusa surrendered to takauji's side.
his father yoshifusa held secret communication with yoshioki nitta,warned this to takauji,and battled with yoshioki.
in due course of time,he took tadafuyu ashikaga's side to become a busho(military commander)of the southern dynasty and appointed to gyobukyo(minister of justice).
he relegated yoshiakira ashikaga and takauji to omi province in 1353 and 1354,respectively.
in december 1361,after having yoshiakira,the second shogun,escape to omi again with masanori kusunoki and kiyouji hosokawa,yorifusa worked as a kendan(policing and adjudication authority)for some time.
in the following year,1362,he moved to settsu province to battle,and attacked mitsunori akamatsu.
then,he surrendered to yoshiakira,who recaptured the capital around 1364.
after that,he entered the priesthood,was taken on as a disciple of kokua,who was a distinguished priest of jishu school and yorifusa's uncle,and became a chuko no so(restorer)of ryosen shofuku-ji temple in otsu city,shiga prefecture.
his son,yoriyo ishido,a mikawa no kami(the lord of mikawa province),served as an umamawari(mounted guards)for shogun yoshimitsu ashikaga.
however,the ishido clan did not appear on records afterwards.
