ozaki no tsubone
ozaki no tsubone(1527-1572)was a lady who lived during the sengoku period(the period of warring states)(japan).
she was the legal wife of takamoto mori,who held the title of sengoku daimyo(japanese territorial lord in the sengoku period).
she was the daughter of okimori naito,who held the positions of chief retainer of the ouchi clan and shugodai(the acting military governor)of nagato province.
she married takamoto mori as the adopted daughter of yoshitaka ouchi,and gave birth to two children,terumoto mori and tsuwano no tsubone(the wife of hiroyori yoshimi).
her alias was kojijyu.
her hogo(a buddhist name)was myoju.
biography
ozaki no tsubone was born the daughter of okimori naito,who was head of the naito clan with the position of nagato no kuni shugodai(the acting military governor of nagato province).
by becoming the adopted daughter of yoshitaka ouchi,she married takamoto,who was a powerful hikan(low-level bureaucrat)of that time and the legal son of motonari mori,who was the kokujin ryoshu(local samurai lord)of aki province.
while she was treated well within the mori family as the legal wife and a daughter of a high class acting military governor,she played her role as a diplomat to negotiate with the ouchi clan.
she gave birth,with takamoto,to terumoto mori,who was the legal son that later inherited the family head position,as well as tsuwano no tsubone,who became the legal wife of hiroyori yoshimi.
after the death of takamoto
she put forth an effort to educate young terumoto even after the ouchi clan fell to ruins in 1557 and takamoto died suddenly in 1563.
there is a letter that still remains today written by the uncle of terumoto requesting motoharu kikkawa and takakage kobayakawa to look after terumoto when motonari passed away in 1571.
she passed away at the age of forty-five in the following year,1572.
her grave is located in the remains of toshun-ji temple in akitakata city,hiroshima prefecture.
she is buried together with motonari mori and the mori family.
