nakatomi no kane
nakatomi no kane(year of birth unknown-september 24,672)was a government official in the asuka period.
the reading is the same in the old japanese syllabary characters.
his kabane(hereditary title)was muraji.
his father was nakatomi no nukateko.
fujiwara no kamatari was his cousin.
he served emperor tenchi and prince otomo(emperor kobun)as a senior vassal and was executed after the defeat in the jinshin war.
udaijin(minister of the right)
brief biography
nakatomi clan administered shinji(a divine service)and saishi(religious service).
nakatomi no kane also adressed norito(shinto ritual prayer)when he worshipped gods beside onjo-ji temple in 670.
but after the death of fujiwara(nakatomi)no kamatari who was a leader of the family,he moved up rapidly as a central figure in the family.
on february 22,671,he offered up shinji by royal command and was appointed to udaijin on the same day.
prince otomo(emperor kobun)was assigned as dajo daijin(grand minister),soga no akae as sadaijin(minister of the left),and soga no hatayasu,kose no hito and ki no ushi were assigned as gyoshi taifu(a chief of controlling the officials).
kane's cap rank was taikinjo(.seventh grade of 26 ranks)
in november of the same year,emperor tenchi became seriously ill,and when prince oama(emperor tenmu)entered into priesthood and traveled to yoshino,nakatomi no kane saw the prince off to the todo(present uji city)with soga no akae and hatayasu.
on november 23(old calender),emperor kobun,and sadaijin,udaijin,and gyoshi taifu noted above,pledged to obey 'imperial decree' in front of the textile budda in the western hall in the imperial palace.
that is,prince otomo stood with a koro(incense burner)in his hand,and pledged as follows.
i obey the imperial decree.'
if not,i will receive divine punishment.'
then,the five others stood with a koro,and tearfully pledged as follows.
we,the five vassals,obey the imperial decree,following the prince.
if not,shitenno(the big four)will beat us.'
the gods of heaven and earth also will punish us.'
sanjusanten(a class of gods residing in the second of the six heavens into which the realm of desire is divided in buddhist cosmology),witness this.
descendents will perish and the family will surely be destroyed.
the contents of this 'imperial decree' was uncertain but it is thought to be about letting prince otomo ascend the throne after the death of emperor tenchi.
on 29(old calender)of the same month,five vassals offered up prince otomo in front of emperor tenchi.
the contents is unknown but it is thought that the same as previous oath.
prince oama took up arms and triggered the jinshin war in july,672.
the course of the war became disadvantageous to prince otomo and when the last decisive battle took place in seta on august 23,nakatomi no kane followed prince otomo to the battle.
nakatomi no kane ran away after they were defeated in this battle.
prince otomo was forced to kill himself on august 24 and then kane was captured.
in an article of august 25 of "nihon shoki"(chronicles of japan),it was written that 'investigated and captured sinners such as sadaijin,udaijin,and so on.'
a month later,on september 25,he was killed by sword in tane azai-gun,omi province(present northern higashiazai-gun,siga prefecture).
his descendant was exiled.
