gakusen sodani
gakusen sodani(1738-december 7,1797)was a tenkokuka(artist of seal engraving)in the middle of the edo period.
he is regarded to be the author of "tofu hyakuchin" (100 tofu delicacies)written under the pen name of suikyodojin kahitsujun.
his azana(adult male's nickname)was応聖,his second names or aliases were仏斎居士,曼陀羅居and読騒菴in addition to gakusen,his common name was tadasuke,which was later changed into宇作.
since his imina(personal name)was shii,his master fuyo ko changed it into chinese style and named him soshii.
he was from kyoto.
brief personal history
he studied under fuyo ko in kyoto and learned kotai school(one of the seal-engraving schools)tenkoku(seal-engraving).
his style was just like his master's,and people even called him 'fuyo's double.'
afterward,for some reasons he came to struggle financially.
recommended by hiroatsu asano(yahei fujiya)of星文堂,he went to osaka and lived by selling seals under the patronage of西村孟清and his son子恭.
he enrolled in hansai hosoai's学半塾and learned keigaku(study of keisho in confucianism)and chinese poetry.
also,he joined a prose and poetry association kontonshisha and had close relationships with literary men in osaka such as the leader hokkai katayama,kenkado kimura and shikin katsu.
especially he often visited kenkado's house and read and obtained knowledge from then current books shipped from china while helping his publishing business.
in addition to actively compiling inpu(compilation of seal marks)and writing discussions regarding tenkoku,he published books of "tofu hyakuchin" and "tofu hyakuchin continued" under the name of suikyodojin kahitsujun,which became bestsellers.
even today,these books are important materials to learn about the food cultures of that time.
also, "naniwa kyoyuroku" (directory of osaka),which imitated "平安人物史" of kyoto,became a koshi(pioneering figure)of name lists of osaka.
gakusen lost his oldest son at a young age,and welcomed an adopted daughter.
however,he lost the adopted daughter and grand child in succession,and gakusen himself died of illness soon after that.
died at the age of 61.
his gravestone is located in tennen-ji temple of mt.shiomachi(tennoji ward,osaka city).
his master hansai hosoai wrote an inscription about his biography.
literary work
"tofu hyakuchin" suikyodojin kahitsujun 1782
"tofu hyakuchin continued" 1783
"naniwa kyoyuroku" 1775/1790
"曼陀羅稿"
inpu "曼陀羅居印譜"
"kanten senjimon" (han's seal,thousand character classic)compiled by fuyo ko,enlarged.
"a study of inseki" (books on tenkoku)1802
"印語簒"
"読騒菴古印彙"
"捃印補正" compiled by fuyo ko,enlarged.
"gakusen inpu"
"野史詠" 1786
