noriharu uesugi
person from yamanouchi-uesugi family.
person from inukake-uesugi family.
noriharu uesugi(yamanouchi-uesugi family)
noriharu uesugi(year of birth unknown-march 25,1379)is a busho(japanese military commander)in the period of the northern and southern courts(japan).
son of noriaki uesugi,and younger brother of yoshinori uesugi.
career
from the yamanouchi-uesugi family.
in 1368,together with his brother,they suppressed the rebellion of yoshimune nitta and yoshiharu wakiya and achieved a successful outcome.
in 1371,he was appointed to be the shugo of kozuke province(military governor of kozuke).
in 1377,he was appointed as kanto kanrei(shogunal deputy for the kanto region)and assisted kamakura kubo(governor-general of the kanto region)ujimitsu ashikaga,who was young at the time,and a year later,he was ordered to be a shugo of musashi province.
in the spring of 1379,seeing yoriyuki hosokawa display his uncommon ability in kyoto,yoshimasa shiba,yoriyasu toki and others requested the dismissal of yoriyuki to the shogun,yoshimitsu ashikaga,by conducting koryaku coup;and ujimitsu had an ambition to obtain the position of shogunate and planned to proceed to the capital to attack yoshimitsu.
noriharu desperately remonstrated against this,but ujimitsu ignored him and tried to attack kyoto;then noriharu left a note of remonstration and took his own life in his house in kamakura on march 7 of the same year.
hogo(a buddhist name)is大沢院高源道珍.
seeing noriharu's remonstration which cost him his life,ujimitsu cancelled his plan to attack kyoto.
noriharu uesugi(inukake-uesugi family)
noriharu uesugi of inukake-uesugi family(a year of birth unknown-1417)is a person in the muromachi period.
son of zenshu uesugi.
younger brother of norikata uesugi.
his name is listed as one of the members of the family who committed suicide when his father zenshu died in war of zenshu uesugi.
according to "kansei choshu shokafu" (a record of family trees of samurai warriors of edo bakufu),he was an adopted child of norimoto uesugi(yamanouchi-uesugi family).
norimoto also adopted another child,norizane uesugi,and had him succeed the yamanouchi-uesugi family.
