toshiyuki saitou
toshiyuki saitou(february 2,1822-may 26,1881)was the karo(chief retainer)of tosa domain in the end of edo period.
he worked for the meiji government as gyobu no taifu(senior assistant minister of justice),sangi(councillor),and genroin gikan(councilor of chamber of elders or senate).
his former name was yakuma watanabe.
he was a child of toshiyuki saitou,a feudal retainer of tosa domain.
biography and personal profile
he served toyoteru yamauchi,the lord of domain,as monogashira(military commander)from a young age;however,because he joined okozegumi(pro-reform group),he was ousted by his opponents in 1843.
later,he returned to his old position by the order of toyo yoshida,and held various posts such as kinju(attendant),metsuke(inspector of foot soldiers),and an instructor overseeing a training of joshi(superior warrior)musket unit.
he worked as shiokiyaku(a councilor of shogunate)and karo during the keio era after these posts.
he together with shojiro goto negotiated successfully with harry parks,a minister of england,and solved the compensation problem when a feudal retainer of tosa domain killed a british sailor in nagasaki city in 1867.
in addition,he and takayuki sasaki had a great success in obtaining weapons working with ryoma sakamoto.
he changed his name to 'toshiyuki saitou' after meiji restoration and served for the new government.
he was assigned to gyobu no taifu(senior assistant minister of justice)in 1870;subsequently he became a core member of the meiji government as sangi(councillor)and drafted shinritsu koryo(outline of the new criminal code).
in the following year,all sangis(councilors)resigned over the confrontation between takayoshi kido and takamori saigo and saitou followed others.
he had returned to his hometown in kochi prefecture temporarily and was recuperating from his illness while taisuke itagaki resigned his position as the result of political upheaval caused by seikanron(debate on subjugation of korea)and organized risshisha(meiji period)to start the freedom and people's rights movement.
respond to the request of sasaki in tokyo,he and tetsu hara tried to undermine itagaki's cause and,at the same time,organize the anti-itagaki force in kochi prefecture.
his efforts to undermine itagaki achieved some of the results;however,attempts to organize the anti-itagaki force failed since they prompted the reinstatement of former sabaku-ha(supporters of the shogun)and sasaki and saitou were regarded as itagaki's allies(as betrayers who helped to establish the new government)and accused.
he came to serve in imperial household ministry in 1874;in the following year,he was appointed to a councilor of the senate and made an effort to establish a maritime law court.
he came down with lung disease in 1881.
he was awarded with the order of the rising sun,gold and silver star(distinguished services award);however,he died soon afterwards.
he was buried in aoyama cemetery.
