fujiwara no umakai
fujiwara no umakai(ad 694 to september 7,ad 737)was a politician during the nara period.
he was the third son of fujiwara no fuhito.
though he introduced himself at first as "magai," after he entered china as a japanese envoy to tang dynasty china,he changed his name to "umakai."
his official rank was senior third rank order of second class councilor shikibukyo(the highness of ceremonial)and dazai no sochi(governor-general of the dazai-fu offices).
biography
in august 716,he was senior sixth rank,lower grade and was appointed as an assistant of japanese envoy to tang dynasty china.
this is the first appearance of historical materials.
he was appointed junior fifth rank,lower grade the next month.
in ad 717,he entered china.
he returned home in october of the next year.
in the new year of 719,he was supposed to be appointed senior fifth rank,lower grade,but he became senior fifth rank,upper grade because of his achievement as an assistant of japanese envoy to tang dynasty china.
when the post of inspector of the provincial government was established in july of the same year,he was appointed the local inspector for 3 provinces as the governor of hitachi;namely awa province,kazusa province,and shimousa province.
in 722,he advanced four ranks and became senior fourth rank upper grade.
in april 724,he was appointed to jisetsu taishogun(general)in shikibukyo(the highness of ceremonial)and sent out troops.
he repressed the revolt of ezo and returned in november.
because of this achievement,his rank medals for merit were advanced the next year,and he became junior third rank order of second class.
in 726,while he was shikibukyo(the highness of ceremonial),he became chief of construction of naniwa no miya.
he became the person in charge of the construction of koki naniwa no miya palace for the latter term.
afterward,even during the nagayao no hen(conspiracy of nagayao)in 729,he handled the incident as a shikibukyo(the highness of ceremonial).
in 732,he became a military governor of saikaido road as sangi(councilor)and shikibukyo(the highness of ceremonial).
the poem of this time was in 'kaifuso',and the poem that takahashi no mushimaro saw him off remained in 'manyoshu'.
moreover,in 780,he gave out the command to use the umakai styled guard.
on august 5,737,while he was sangi(councilor)shikibukyo(the highness of ceremonial)and senior third rank dazai no sochi(governor-general of the dazai-fu offices),he died.
his eldest son fujiwara no hirotsugu caused the rebellion of fujiwara no hirotsugu three years later.
he was the founder of fujiwara shikike(a sub branch of fujiwara family).
