shigetomi ohara
shigetomi ohara(november 21,1801-april 1,1879)was a court noble who lived from the final days of the edo period to the early days of the meiji period;his father was shigetada ohara of the uda-genji(minamoto clan)(whose foster father was shigenari ohara),while his mother was a daughter of ariie karahashi.
his azana(other name)is tokugi.
his childhood name was tsunemaru or tsunemaro.
shigetomi was born in kyoto.
he became a jido(page)of emperor kokaku in 1809,held a post in the imperial court in 1815,and then was given important posts by emperor komei.
when roju(shogun's council of elders)masayoshi hotta visited kyoto to ask for imperial sanction to sign the japan-us treaty of amity and commerce in 1858,shigetoku stood against the move together with tomomi iwakura,but both were suspended because of the protest.
when hisamitsu shimazu came to kyoto together with the army of his domain satsuma to propose action plans in 1862,shigetoku,who was released from suspension,went to edo under the protection of satsuma's army as a chokushi(special envoy)at the recommendation of iwakura.
in edo,he demanded of roju katsukiyo itakura and yasuori wakisaka that the tokugawa shogunate stand strong against foreign forces,yoshinobu hitotsubashi be assigned as the guardian of the shogun,former lord of fukui domain yoshinaga matsudaira be assigned as seiji sosaishoku or a tentative post of presidency on political affairs,and both of them join the shogunate government.
after returning to kyoto,he assumed such posts as kokuji goyogakari(state affairs official).
in the same year,he resigned after being charged for doctoring the chousho(official document issued by emperor)stating that the domain of choshu,who also proposed action plans to the imperial court,criticized satsuma.
in 1864,he was pardoned,but in 1866 he was confined after the abortion of his attempt to expel pro-tokugawa nobles such as imperial prince kuninomiya asahiko or nariyuki nijo.
later he was released from confinement and promoted to gon chunagon(a provisional vice-councilor of state)in 1868,assumed posts in the new meiji government,such as sanyo(councilor)or gijo(official post),a member of the cabinet,and died in 1879 at the age of 79.
on april 3,1879,he was posthumously granted shonii(senior second rank).
he was buried at the yanaka cemetery,yanaka,taito ward,tokyo.
posthumous buddhist name:furin or fuhaku
career of job grade
dates are in the lunar calendar until the 3rd year of meiji.
may 5,1805,promoted to jugoinoge(junior fifth rank,lower grade)
january 17,1816,celebrated genpuku(coming of age),was allowed to enter the imperial palace,promoted to jugoinojo(junior fifth rank,upper grade),and assigned title of yamato no gon no suke(provisional vice governor of yamato province).
on february 26,1818,he was promoted to shogoinoge(senior fifth rank,lower grade),while retained his position as yamato no gon no suke.
may 18,1820,transferred to sama no kami(captain of samaryo,left division of bureau of horses).
february 24,1821,promoted to jushiinoge(junior fourth rank,lower grade),while retained his position as sama no kami.
february 11,1824,promoted to jushiinojo(junior fourth rank,upper grade),while retained his position as sama no kami.
october 1,1826,assigned additional post of jiju(chamberlain).
1830
may 29,transferred to ukone no gon no shosho(provisional minor captain of the right division of inner palace guards),while retained his position as sama no kami.
february 1,1831,also assumed the post of in no betto(chief of the administrative office of the retired emperor)for retired emperor kokaku.
1831
october 25,transferred to ukone no gon no chujo(provisional middle captain of the right division of inner palace guards),while remaining as sama no kami.
january 21,1832,promoted to jusanmi(senior third rank)and sansanmi(third rank without official post).
may 20,promoted to shosanmi(senior third rank).
1862
june 6,assigned to saemon no kami(captain of the left division of outer palace guards).
january 28,1863,assumed the post of kokuji goyogakari(a general official of the imperial household in charge of the state affair),which was newly established in the imperial court.
april 10,1863,confined to home and entered priesthood.
at the same time,released from the post of kokuji goyogakari.
february 16,returned to secular life and resumed the rank of shosanmi.
1867
october 24,assigned to post of sangi.
november 18,promoted to junii(junior second rank),while retained his position as sangi.
1868
march 13,assumed the post of sanyo of the meiji government.
april 12,transferred to gon chunagon.
may 7,also assumed the post of director-general of the kasamatsu court of the meiji government.
may 17,resigned from the post of the director-general of the kasamatsu court of justice.
june 11,resigned from the post of sanyo for the government.
june 11,assumed keihokan chiji,a post similar to justice minister.
1869
june 5,resigned from keihokan chiji.
june 11,assumed jokyoku gijo,a post similar to a member of the upper house of the giseikan,or the cabinet of the meiji government.
june 24,assumed jokyoku gicho or the chairman of the upper house(to take over from the predecessor toyoshige yamanouchi).
august 16,resigned from jokyoku gicho.
october 8,assumed shugiin chokan,or the president of the shugiin,or upper house.
december 9,1870,resigned from shugiin chokan and assumed jakono-ma shiko,an honorary post to reward persons of merit.
april 1,1879,died at the age of 79.
april 3,posthumously granted shonii(senior second rank).
