sanenatsu toin
sanenatsu toin(1315-july 6,1367)was a court noble(naidaijin(minister of the center)(jimyoin-to(imperial lineage from emperor gofukakusa to emperor gokomatsu))who lived in the period of the northern and southern courts.
his father was kinkata toin,who was the daijodaijin(grand minister of state),and kinsada toin was sanenatsu's son.
he was ranked at jugoinoge(junior fifth rank,lower grade)when he was seventeen years old and,soon later,he celebrated his genpuku(the coming-of-age ceremony for a boy in the old days)and assumed the position of a jiju(chamberlain),konoefu(the headquarters of the inner palace guard).
in the era of the emperor kogon,he was once promoted up to jushiinoge(junior fourth rank,lower grade),but in line with the restoration of the emperor godaigo,it became invalid.
after only four months,however,he came back to the previous position and he was appointed to the gon shonagon(provisional lesser councilor of state).
then,in the kenmu restration,he belonged to the kirokujo(land record office)as a yoriudo(scribe).
when takauji ashikaga helped the emperor komyo to the throne and the emperor godaigo escaped to yoshino,sanenatsu rendered service together with his father to the new emperor and,as his elder brother,saneyo toin,who was the heir,joined the southern court and was disinherited,sanenatsu,who was the second son,inherited the toin family.
in 1337,when his father resigned from the udaijin(minister of the right),sanenatsu was promoted to a sangi(royal advisor)and,within the same year,he was also promoted to jusanmi(junior third rank)and became a court noble.
after that,his promotion continued to the gon chunagon(provisional vice-councilor of state)in 1340,shosanmi(senior third rank)in 1342,junii(junior second rank)in 1346,gon dainagon(provisional chief councilor of state)in 1347 and shonii(senior second rank)in 1355.
in 1360 in which his father died,he assumed the positions of sakone no daisho(major captain of the left division of inner palace guards)and samaryo(left division of bureau of horses).
in 1363,he was promoted to naidaijin.
in 1364,however,he resigned from all official positions by reason of his illness and the juichii(junior first rank)was given to him and he died three years later.
he left his diary "sanenatsu-ko ki" that was written from the next year of his appointment to a sangi for fourteen years.
