fujiwara no yorimune
fujiwara no yorimune(c.992 to march 18,1065)was a court noble during the mid to late heian period.
his father was fujiwara no michinaga.
his mother was minamoto no akiko,minamoto no takaakira's daughter.
his siblings included fujiwara no yoshinobu,fujiwara no akinobu,fujiwara no nagaie,and fujiwara no kanshi(or hiroko,also known as lady koichijoin),and his half siblings fujiwara no takako(or sonshi,the wife of minamoto no morofusa),fujiwara no yorimichi and fujiwara no norimichi.
he was called iwao(厳)when he was a child.
michinaga's officially recognized wife was not akiko,the mother of yorimune,but minamoto no rinshi(yorimichi and norimichi's mother).
therefore,yorimune was promoted more slowly than yorimichi,who was the same age as yorimune;nevertheless,he was appointed as gon chunagon(a provisional vice-councilor of state)in 1014 and gon dainagon(a provisional chief councilor of state)in 1021.
he was also appointed as togu daibu(master of the crown prince's quarters)and ukone no daisho(major captain of the right division of inner palace guards),was promoted to naidaijin(minister of the interior)in 1047 and udaijin(minister of the right),and was called horikawa no udaijin.
he became a buddhist priest because of illness in january 1065 and died on february 3 of the same year at the age of 74.
yorimune was also known as a waka poet and published a waka collection, 'nyudo udaijin shu' (collection of waka poems).
he is believed to have had love affairs with women waka poets such as daini no sanmi and koshikibu no naishi.
official record
1004(12 years old):yorimune was awarded the rank of jugoinojo(junior fifth rank,upper grade)and appointed as jiju(chamberlain)and uhyoe gon no suke(provisional assistant captaof the right division of middle palace guards).
1006:he was awarded the rank of shogoinoge(senior fifth rank,lower grade).
1007:he was concurrently appointed as ushosho(minor captaof the right division of inner palace guards),jushiinoge(junior fourth rank,lower grade),sashosho(minor captaof the left division of inner palace guards)and mimasaka no gon no suke(provisional assistant governor of mimasaka province).
1009:he was appointed as ukone no gon no chujo(provisional middle captaof the right division of inner palace guards),jushiinojo(junior fourth rank,upper grade).
1010:he was awarded the rank of shoshiinoge(senior fourth rank,lower grade).
1011(20 years old):he was awarded the rank of jusanmi(junior third rank).
1012:he was awarded the rank of shosanmi(senior third rank).
1013:he was appointed as bitchu no gon no kami(provisional governor of bitchu province),junii(junior second rank).
1014:he was appointed as gon chunagon.
1016:he was concurrently appointed as uemon no kami(captaof the right division of outer palace guards)and kebiishi no betto(superintendent of the imperial police).
1017:he was concurrently appointed as saemon no kami(captaof the left division of outer palace guards)and kotaigogu gon no daibu(provisional master of the empress dowager's household).
1018:he was appointed as kotaigogu gon no daibu(provisional master of the grand empress dowager's household),shonii(senior second rank).
1021:he was concurrently appointed as gon dainagon and togu daibu.
1028:he was appointed as azechi(inspector of provincial governments).
1045(53 years old):he was concurrently appointed as udaisho(major captaof the right division of inner palace guards).
1047:he was appointed as naidaijin.
1058:he was awarded the rank of juichii(junior first rank).
1060(68 years old):he was appointed as udaijin.
