motokiyo ogamo
motokiyo ogamo was a japanese busho(military commander)lived through the sengoku period(period of warring states in japan)to azuchi-momoyama period,who became the lord of iwakura-jo castle in kume domain,hoki province.
some descriptions regarded him as the lord of ueshi-jo castle,but it is incorrect.
career
he was born as the second son of munekatsu nanjo.
while the birth date of motokiyo is unknown,he made his first appearance in a record in 1562 that he donated kanda(fields owned by shrines)in 75 koku to matsuo-jinja shrine.
during the periods of eiroku to tensho era,he succeeded the headship of the ogamo family and changed his surname to ogamo.
in 1579,the nanjo clan broke away from the mori clan to the oda clan,then motoharu kikkawa(motoharu mori)opposed this action and invaded the hoki province;although motokiyo and his elder brother mototsugu attacked yabase-jo castle of mori side in two wave attacks,both were repulsed.
although he fought hard and bravely in those later battles with the kikkawa clan,motokiyo escaped along with mototsugu after the fall of ueshi-jo castle in 1582 by leaving his defending castle iwakura-jo castle.
after returning to higashi hoki in 1584,he became a guardian of the sickly mototsugu and assumed the works of government affairs on his behalf.
after his elder brother mototsugu died in 1591,his son mototada nanjo succeeded the headship of nanjo family;motokiyo became the guardian of mototada and assumed the works of government affairs as utsubuki-jo castle joban(live-in castle guardian)by residing in a residence within the castle compound.
the remain of his residence in this castle is now called "ogamo-maru" (the walled territory area of ogamo).
in the event of the invasion of korean peninsula during yi dynasty,motokiyo himself led 1500 soldiers and crossed the sea in place of the young mototada.
when a feud over a guardian position erupted with mototada,motokiyo was placed under the care of yukinaga konishi by hideyoshi toyotomi upon the advice of yamada ecchu no kami(governor of ecchu province);he changed back to his original surname "nanjo" at this time.
although he fought against the troops of kiyomasa kato under the konishi troops during the battle of sekigahara,motokiyo switched to serve under kiyomasa kato for 6,000 koku when the konishi clan declined after the battle;he became a monk and called himself as "gentaku."
motokiyo wished to serve under hideyori toyotomi at the siege of osaka occurred in 1614,but he became ill during the voyage to osaka,and died on march 23 of the same year despite the medical treatment received at kennin-ji temple.
(there is also a theory to consider the date of his death as november 24)his grave is located at zenjou-ji temple in kumamoto city.
heresy regarding his late years
while there were various theories regarding his last years,the above-mentioned theory described in "nanjo seisui ki" is one of those.
according to "hoki mindan ki" (the folklores of hoki),motokiyo escaped to mimasaka province after the battle of sekigahara,and died in the place.
according to another record "nanjo family trees" owned by the university of tokyo,motokiyo resided in "sakushu(another name of mimasaka province)saibara."
however,this theory is based on the books written in later years,and there is no substantiating historical records to prove its authenticity.
on the other hand,there are historical materials to support the above-mentioned "nanjo clan seisuiki," thus it is considered this theory has a higher level of credibility.
