yoshinobu(yoshihisa,keiki)tokugawa
yoshinobu(yoshihisa)tokugawa was the 15th seii taishogun of the edo shogunate(held the position from december 5,1866 to december 9,1867,both in the old lunar calendar).
he was the only shogun who did not work in edo-jo castle.
his rank awarded by the imperial court was naidaijin(inner minister)ju-ichii kun-itto koshaku.
he was a member of the house of peers of japan.
he served as the guardian(shogun kokenshoku)of the 14th shogun iemochi tokugawa;after iemochi's death he assumed his position as the 15th shogun of the edo shogunate.
after he returned his right to administer government to emperor meiji(taisei hokan),he worked aiming to unite the nobles and samurai(kobu gattai);however,during the battle of toba-fushimi that took place after the restoration of imperial rule(osei fukko),he left the shogunate army behind at osaka-jo castle and returned to edo-jo castle;thereafter,he received a subjugation order from the imperial court and entered into disciplinary confinement which led to the bloodless surrender of edo-jo castle.
after being freed from the disciplinary confinement,he immersed himself in his hobbies;he was awarded the title of koshaku and lived into the taisho period.
name
the name "yoshinobu" is also popularly read as "keiki" (yusoku-yomi,the way of pronouncing in the chinese-derived reading,so as not to directly pronounce the real name of the respectable person in the japanese reading).
there is a record among official documents of the edo shogunate that during his tenure as the shogun his name was also read as "yoshihisa".
there are also records of his name written as "yoshihisa" with his own signature using roman letters,and[his name printed as "yoshihisa"]in newspapers in english.
he is most often called "yoshinobu" in his homeland of mito,but he is often called "keiki" in shizuoka,where he spent the rest of his life.
according to those who knew him in his lifetime,yoshinobu himself liked to be called "keiki-sama",and he called himself "keiki" in a telegraph sent to his younger brother,akitake tokugawa.
yoshihisa tokugawa,who was yoshinobu's heir,was also called "keikyu-sama" from those around him.
the use of the two names "keiki-sama" and "keiki-san" has been confirmed,and even though it seems to have become uncommon in the modern days,the use of "keiki-san" is not limited to shizuoka but is confirmed in various regions;in both cases the name is often used with much affection.
though ryotaro shiba commented that "the name 'keiki' was used quite often among those associated with the former shogunate",the use of the name "keiki" was also confirmed among those related to higo-han clan who worked toward the fall of the shogunate;there is a possibility that he was widely yet secretly respected and admired.
his life
early childhood
he was born at the mito-han clan residence of koishikawa in edo,as the seventh son of the ninth chief[of mito-han clan],nariaki tokugawa on september 29,1837.
his mother was[his father's]legitimate wife,princess yoshiko(he was the first shogun since the third shogun iemitsu tokugawa whose biological mother was the father's legitimate wife.
however,although iemitsu's biological mother is officially known as the father hidetada's legitimate wife,ogo no kata,but one theory suggests that his biological mother was kasuga no tsubone).
his childhood name was shichiromaro.
based on nariaki's educational policy, "a boy should be educated in his home domain" yoshinobu moved to mito at the age of seven months and spent most of his time there until he succeeded to the hitotsubashi tokugawa family,during which time he was educated and taught martial arts by seishisai aizawa.
yoshinobu's intelligence was noted early;at first,instead of sending him to another family for adoption,nariaki planned to keep him by his eldest son and heir,yoshiatsu tokugawa's side.
succession to the hitotsubashi family
on august 1,1847,the shogunate gave a secret order to designate shichiromaro of mito-han clan as the heir to the hitotsubashi family,one of the three branches of the tokugawa-han clan(gosankyo).
accepting this order,shichiromaro succeeded to the hitotsubashi family on september 1;in december,he received henki(one character of shogun's name:慶)from the 12th shogun ieyoshi(家慶)tokugawa and changed his name to yoshinobu(慶喜).
considering yoshinobu as a strong candidate as the heir to the shogun,ieyoshi visited the hitotsubashi residence often,but he abandoned this idea after accepting roju masahiro abe's admonishing advice.
the issue of shogun's heir
during the disorder caused by the arrival of the black ships,shogun ieyoshi died in 1853;his heir,the 13th shogun iesada tokugawa,had poor health with no prospect of having his own son,and therefore the issue of "who would become the shogun's heir" arose(issue of shogun's heir).
there was an opposition between the hitotsubashi-party that included nariaki,masahiro abe and the chief of satsuma-han clan,nariakira shimazu,who recommended yoshinobu,and the nanki-party primarily consisting of the chief of hikone-han clan,naosuke ii,and the ooku members headed by iesada's birth-mother,honjuin,who recommended the chief of kii-han clan,yoshitomi tokugawa.
the hitotsubashi-party executed political maneuvers such as sending into ooku nariakira shimazu's adopted daughter,tenshoin,as shogun's wife(midaidokoro),but after the death of masahiro abe and nariakira shimazu,its power weakened;naosuke ii who became tairo in 1858 settled on "shogun's heir as yoshitomi tokugawa" through arbitration.
in the same year,naosuke ii signed the treaty of amity and commerce between the united states and japan without the emperor's permission.
yoshinobu,along with nariaki and the chief of fukui-han clan,yoshinaga matsudaira,made an unexpected visit to the[edo-jo]castle and closely interrogated naosuke,but in tern,he was questioned on his offense of making an unexpected visit to the castle;he was ordered to retire and was given a disciplinary confinement in the following year(1859)(ansei purge).
yoshinobu himself seemed to be uninterested in becoming the heir to the shogun and he sent a letter to nariaki whose content indicated "i appreciate your efforts but i'd rather not become the shogun than to make mistakes after becoming the shogun."
guardian of the shogun(shogun kokenshoku)
he was relieved from his disciplinary confinement in 1860.
in 1862,guarded by the satsuma-han clan army under the command of hisamitsu shimazu,the emperor's messenger,shigetomi ohara,entered edo and delivered emperor komei's order to "promote yoshinobu tokugawa to the shogun's guardian(shogun kokenshoku)and shungaku(yoshinaga)matsudaira to tairo."
on july 6,the shogunate ordered yoshinobu to be the shogun's guardian(shogun kokenshoku)and shungaku to be the shogunal prime minister(seiji sosaishoku).
yoshinobu and shungaku directed a reform of the shogunate known as the bunkyu reform that included installation of the office of kyoto protector(kyoto shugoshoku)and relaxation of sankin kotai requirement.
in 1863,he went to kyoto as iemochi tokugawa's harbinger,and he endeavored to negotiate with the members of the imperial court who urged the execution of joi(expulsion of foreigners from japan).
upon emperor komei's visit to iwashimizu hachiman-gu shrine to pray for the execution of joi,if iemochi received setto(emperor's sword that symbolically authorizes the shogun to take charge of the upcoming battle on behalf of the emperor)from the emperor,he would have no choice but to execute joi;yoshinobu quickly made iemochi cancel the audience[with the emperor]by saying that iemochi had a cold and a fever(pretended illness).
when the sonno joi party(the anti-foreigner royalists)centered around the choshu-han clan lost their case upon the political change on august 18,yoshinobu went to kyoto again in order to participate in a meeting jointly held by the party trying to unite the nobles and samurai(kobu gattai)and the party assisting the shogunate(sabaku).
however,when no agreement was reached,he used a bold method of negotiation;he intentionally got drunk at a banquet with prince kuni asahiko and reviled at munenari date,shungaku matsudaira and hisamitsu shimazu,and furthermore,violently said to nakagawa no miya, "how much is shimazu paying you!" so as to breakdown their organization.
thereafter,he remained in kyoto and he was appointed to kinri goshuei sotoku(head of the imperial palace/emperor's protector);together with the protector(shugoshoku)katamori matsudaira(aizu-han clan)and kyoto shoshidai sadaaki matsudaira(chief of kuwana-han clan)regulated the nobles and those loyal to the emperor(ichi-kai-so(hitotsubashi-aizu-kuwana)structure).
during the tenguto war he showed his cruelty by slashing his supporters such as kounsai takeda and the vassals of his home domain of mito.
at the kinmon rebellion in 1864 he led the shogunate army and he himself attacked the choshu army that had occupied the takatsukasa residence.
after the first subjugation of choshu that followed,he made every effort to secure the emperor's permission on the treaty of amity and commerce between the unites states and japan that had been left unauthorized by the emperor;he succeeded in securing the emperor's authorization albeit with provisos.
his tenure as the shogun
at the second subjugation of choshu in 1866,yoshinobu suppressed interferences from satsuma-han clan and received a direct order from the emperor to subjugate choshu.
however,because of the satsuma-choshu alliance(saccho alliance),satsuma-han clan refused to send its army and consequently the shogunate army had to retreat.
during the second subjugation of choshu,shogun iemochi passed away at osaka-jo castle on july 20.
yoshinobu appealed to the imperial court to make an official announcement of truce by the emperor and he succeeded in concluding an armistice treaty.
he was recommended to be iemochi's successor but yoshinobu firmly declined.
he succeeded to the tokugawa shogun family on aug.20 but he continued to refuse to assume his position as the shogun.
since then the roju(shogun's political advisor)and others sincerely requested him to become the shogun,but he still did not accept the request;he finally assumed his position as the shogun on december 5,after accepting(emperor komei's)direct order to become the shogun.
by becoming the shogun as a favor to others he aimed to manipulate politics to his advantage.
through the french minister leon roches,he received 2.4 million dollars from france and founded yokosuka ironworks,a shipyard,and a ship repair dock,and he also led a revolution in the military system by inviting a group of military advisors headed by jules brunet.
he also sent his biological younger brother,akitake tokugawa,to the paris exposition and encouraged the younger members of the shogunate vassals to study in europe.
on the matter of opening of port of hyogo,he tenaciously persuaded the imperial court and obtained the emperor's permission.
yoshinobu anticipated a secret order to saccho(satsuma and choshu-han clans)from the emperor to destroy the shogunate,and on oct.14,1867,he(as a preemptive measure)suggested to the imperial court that he would return his political power to the emperor;his request was accepted by the emperor on the 15th,the following day(taisei hokan).
it is said that he judged the imperial court at the time to have no capability to administer government,and he therefore sought continuation of tokugawa family's political power by leading the session of clan chiefs.
boshin war
however,because of the anti-shogunate activists toshimichi okubo and tomomi iwakura's scheme,there was a command to revive the political power of the imperial court in december,and yoshinobu was ordered "jikan nochi" (to resign from his position as naidaijin and surrender the tokugawa territory).
in order to avoid confrontations yoshinobu retreated to osaka-jo castle,assembled the ambassadors from various foreign countries and asserted the legitimacy of tokugawa;furthermore,he appealed to the imperial court and had the jikan nochi modified to more moderate terms.
however,in response to the provocation caused by satsuma-han clan in the city of edo in 1868 he mobilized his army and blockaded kyoto using the armies of aizu and kuwana-han clans.
nevertheless,at the battle of toba fushimi that broke out on january 3,even though the military force was holding up adequately,he judged that the former shogunate army was at a disadvantage;he abandoned his army and retreated to edo-jo castle aboard warship kaiyo maru.
soon an order was issued to subjugate yoshinobu as the enemy of the imperial court,and the imperial army led by general prince arisugawa taruhito set off to the east.
yoshinobu suppressed the resistance party led by tadamasa oguri and asserted to comply with the order.
in february,he entrusted kaishu katsu to take control of the situation and entered into a disciplinary confinement at daiji-in located in kan'ei-ji temple in ueno.
furthermore,he passed on the estate of tokugawa-soke(the main branch of tokugawa family)to his adopted son kamenosuke tayasu(future iesato tokugawa).
the negotiation between katsu and the staff officer of the imperial army,takamori saigo,reached an agreement and bloodless surrender of edo-jo castle took place;yoshinobu was moved to mito and he continued his disciplinary confinement in a room within kodokan of[mito]han(domain)school.
in july,[the entire]tokugawa family was relocated to sunpu.
yoshinobu tokugawa's aides
ichinoshin hara(warrior of mito-han clan,vassal of hitotsubashi family)
enshiro hiraoka(vassal of hitotsubashi family)
amane nishi(political advisor to shogun yoshinobu tokugawa)
tomoyoshi toki
chojuro nakane(vassal of hitotsubashi family)
zaemon kuraishi
magotaro umezawa
keijuro kawamura
chikatsugu matsudaira
rest of his life(his later years)
in september of 1869 yoshinobu's disciplinary confinement was lifted as a result of the end of boshin war.
thereafter he did not participate in politics and spent his days immersed in his interests such as photography,hunting,net fishing,playing go and noh songs.
he moved to sugamo,tokyo in 1897.
in the following year he visited the imperial palace and had and audience with emperor meiji.
in 1902 he was bestowed a title of koshaku and he established the yoshinobu tokugawa family aside from the main branch of tokugawa family.
he passed on the family estate to yoshihisa tokugawa and he retired in 1910.
he died of pneumonia in 1913.
he was 76 years old and had the longest life among the successive shoguns.
chronological history
*until 1872 the dates noted use the lunar calendar.
1,847
he became the head of the hitotsubashi family on september 1.
he changed his name to yoshinobu on december 1.
on the same day,he was given the rank of ju-sanmi sakonoe gon chujo and assigned to gyobukyo.
he married tadaka ichijo's adopted daughter,mikako,on december 3,1855.
he became a sangi(councilor).
in 1857,he became a strong candidate for the heir to iesada tokugawa.
because of ansei incident he was ordered to retire and enter into disciplinary confinement in august,1859.
he was relieved from retirement and disciplinary confinement in september,1860.
1862
on july 6,his position as the head of the hitotsubashi family was restored.
on the same day,he became the guardian of the shogun(shogun kokenshoku)due to the emperor's order.
in november,he was reassigned to the rank of gon chunagon.
in december,1863,he assumed the position of chogi san'yo.
1864
on march 9,he resigned from the position of chogi san'yo.
on march 25,he resigned from his position as the guardian of the shogun(shogun kokenshoku).
on the same day,he took the position as kinri goshuei sotoku(head of the imperial palace/emperor's protector)and sekkai bogyo shiki(commander of osaka bay defense).
at the kinmon incident he led the resistance army.
1866
he resigned from the kinri goshuei sotoku(head of the imperial palace/emperor's protector)towards the end of july.
on august 20,he became the head of the main branch of the tokugawa family.
on december 15,he was assigned the rank of sho-nii gon dainagon and ukonoe daisho.
he became the seii taishogun on the same day.
1867
in september,1867,his rank was changed to naidaijin.
he retained the rank of ukonoe daisho.
taisei hokan took place on october 14.
on december 19,he resigned from the position of seii taishogun.
on april 11,1868,he was stripped of his political rank and duties.
on september 28,1869,his disciplinary confinement was lifted.
on january 6,1872,his courtly rank was restored to ju-shii.
on may 18,1880,his rank was promoted to sho-nii.
on june 20,1888,his rank was promoted to ju-ichii.
on november 19,1897,he moved his residence to tokyo.
on march 2,1898,he had an audience with emperor meiji(first audience since taisei hokan).
on june 3,1902,he received the rank of koshaku.
he was allowed to officially establish yoshinobu tokugawa(koshaku)family aside from the main branch of the tokugawa family.
he was a member of house of peers(japan)(december,1910)
1908
on april 30,his contributions to taisei hokan were recognized and he was awarded kun-itto kyokujitsu daijusho from the meiji government.
he retired on december 8.
he died(at 4:10 a.m.)on november,22,1913.
on the same day,he was awarded kyokujitsu toka daijusho.
his character
early childhood
as far as education and studying of martial arts are concerned,he was born and raised under the very best circumstance;among many forms of martial arts he was especially interested in and was an expert in shuriken(dirk-throwing).
even after taisei hokan,he practiced throwing the shuriken every day until he was sweating,and he is counted as one of the most famous persons among the shuriken experts.
he tossed about a lot in bed in his sleep,and his father,nariaki tokugawa,thought that this would be a problem when he became the heir to the tokugawa family;in order to correct this,razor blades were planted into his pillow(this was done just to scare him,and in reality the razor blades were removed after he had fallen asleep so as to prevent any injuries).
on the other hand,there is an anecdote that in his adulthood he slept with his wife and a concubine so that the three of them formed the letter "y" as a measure against assassination attempts.
there is supposed to be a photograph of yoshinobu from his early childhood,but because cameras were probably not yet introduced to japan at that time,it is doubtful that the photograph is that of yoshinobu.
as the head of hitotsubashi family
yoshinobu visited iemochi when he fell ill,and at this occasion it is said that they had a normal conversation.
as the shogun
his extraordinary talent was well known,and his father nariaki tokugawa's confidant,tatewaki ajima,commented on him as "someone who will purify the tokugawa family line";he singly shouldered the expectation of restoring the shogunate's authority,and when his highly touted tenure as the shogun began,his brilliance was praised as "the return of ieyasu tokugawa".
yoshinobu's intelligence was well known even among the anti-shogunate party,and takayoshi kido of choshu-han clan in particular was on guard saying, "yoshinobu hitotsubashi's daring and intelligent strategy cannot be underestimated.
it is like seeing the return of ieyasu."
regarding the decision on taisei hokan,ryoma sakamoto said, "my respected shogun,i wonder what you are feeling in your heart today.
i praise how you made the[difficult]decision,i praise how you made the[difficult]decision.
i make a vow to dedicate my life to the lord. " ryoma highly praised yoshinobu and he even considered giving yoshinobu a position as assistant kanpaku in the new government.
however,yoshinobu did not learn about the existence of ryoma until the meiji era(after ryoma's death).
yoshinobu was not the only person who did not know about ryoma;ryoma's fame in his life time was very much smaller than that after the meiji restoration.
battle with the new government
when he lost the battle of toba-fushimi and retreated to edo,his enemies highly criticized him for "running away in the face of the enemy".
there were people who made fun of yoshinobu for being a spineless coward,pointing out that even though he left behind ieyasu's umajirushi(sign belonging to the clan general/chief and used in a battle)of golden fan,he always had his beloved concubine with him.
however,there is a view that yoshinobu had no choice[but to retreat]because at that time it was necessary to suppress military revolts in edo as well as in musashi province,and because yoshinobu became the imperial court's enemy,various clans were alienating themselves one after another from the shogunate;thus,even if he was able to protect osaka-jo castle,a long-term battle had to be avoided in order to prevent interventions from foreign countries.
because he entered kan'ei-ji temple for disciplinary confinement as soon as the new government designated him as the imperial court's enemy,he was considered as a reasonable man who respected the emperor and the imperial court(perhaps this was due to the teaching of mito-han[clan]that highly respected the emperor and also to the fact that his mother was from the imperial family);however,on the other hand,he was also called weak-kneed because as the lord of his people,he was not able to stand resolutely in the face of the enemy.
after the meiji restoration
because of his compliance with the disciplinary confinement and the bloodless transfer of edo-jo castle,the administrative power was transferred as a result of almost a bloodless revolution;he contributed greatly to the restoration and ensuring of independency of modern japan.
businessman eiichi shibusawa was a vassal appointed during[yoshinobu's]tenure as the head of the hitotsubashi tokugawa family,and they kept their contact even after the meiji restoration.
in yoshinobu's last years,shibusawa aimed to edit yoshinobu's biography;he persuaded unwilling yoshinobu and started "sekimukai" meetings to hear stories directly from yoshinobu.
a collection of these stories is called "sekimukai hikki".
in one of the chapters which was recorded in the form of a discussion,one can see what yoshinobu's voice,so to speak,was like.
he used his age as an excuse to evade unpalatable questions and he let out his true feelings by saying, "i didn't really like hisamitsu shimazu" and "naomasa nabeshima was a cunning fellow";from these comments,one can see his personality and what he was feeling at that time.
after yoshinobu's death "tokugawa yoshinobu-ko den" was completed based on these materials.
in order to show his gratitude to emperor meiji who pardoned yoshinobu from being the enemy of the imperial court and gave him the title of koshaku,the highest rank of the peers,yoshinobu directed in his will that his funeral be conducted in the shinto style rather than the buddhist style.
therefore,yoshinobu's grave is neither in the tokugawa family graveyard of his family temple zojo-ji temple or the tokugawa family graveyard at kan'ei-ji temple;instead,a tumulus similar to that of the imperial family was built in yanaka cemetery.
he did so because he was moved by the fact that emperor komei's tomb was very simple("tokugawa yoshinobu-ko den").
after his pardon,yoshinobu enjoyed a relaxed life without any regards to his former vassals who devoted their lives to him;on this,roju katsukiyo itakura later commented, "i regret working together with yoshinobu".
even though he has an image of being a spineless coward,because he "ran away in the face of his enemy" during the battle of toba-fushimi,there has recently been a focus on his attempt at constructing a new,modern political system after taisei hokan,and there is a movement to re-evaluate his contributions including airing of "tokugawa yoshinobu" (an nhk taiga drama).
episodes
as with his father,nariaki,he liked pork from satsuma-han clan and he was called butaichi-sama(meaning hitotsubashi-sama who likes pork).
he was interested in items of western culture,and in his later years he liked to eat bread and drink milk and he enjoyed his interests in photography,fishing,riding the bicycle,microscopy and craft(embroidery).during his tenure as the shogun,he learned french from amane nishi but he gave up on this.
he was well know as a photographer,but his techniques in photography seemed to have been mediocre.
he often submitted his photographs to photography magazines,but his photographs were hardly ever printed in the magazines.
his great grandchild,yoshitomo tokugawa,is a freelance photographer;he discovered photographs stored in the yoshinobu tokugawa family including the ones taken by yoshinobu and he published the photo album after organizing and editing them.
yoshinobu's biological younger brother,akitake tokugawa,was his friend who shared his hobbies in his life.
family and relatives
he married mikako ichijo(name changed to mikako after the meiji restoration)on december 3,1855.
the first daughter(keikoin)between mika was born on july 16,1858 but she soon died on july 20.
afterwards,there were no more children between mika;the 10 boys and 11 girls born during the meiji era were children born between his two concubines.
some of these children include the seventh son,yoshihisa,who became a koshaku and succeeded to the yoshinobu tokugawa family,tenth son,kuwashi,who married into kaishu katsu's family and ninth daughter,tsuneko,who became prince fushimi hiroyasu.
some of yoshihisa's children include yoshimitsu tokugawa and princess kikuko who married prince takamatsu nobuhito.
wife:mikako ichijo(name changed to mikako after the meiji restoration)(daughter of kinhisa imadegawa,adopted daughter of tadaka ichijo,july 19,1835-july 9,1894
concubine:nobu shinmura(daughter of masataka matsudaira,adopted daughter of takeo shinmura,died on february 8,1905)
first son:keiji(june 29,1871-may 22,1872)
first daughter:kyoko(june 2,1873-september 29,1893,married satotaka tokugawa,on march 23,1887)
third daughter:tetsuko(october 27,1875-december 10,1921,married satomichi tokugawa on december 30,1890)
fifth son:nakahiro ikeda(august 28,1877-january 1,1948,adopted by terutomo ikeda on february 25,1890)
sixth son:hitoshi(august 17,1878-november 28,1878)
sixth daughter:yoshiko(august 24,1880-september 29,1880)
ninth daughter:tsuneko(september 23,1882-august 18,1939,married to prince fushimi hiroyasu on january 9,1897)
seventh son:yoshihisa tokugawa(september 2,1884-january 22,1922)
eleventh daughter:hideko(march 22,1887-july 5,1924,married kuniyuki tokugawa on april 29,1911)
tenth son:kuwashi katsu(august 23,1888-july 10,1932,married into kaishu katsu's family on january 20,1899)
concubine:ko nakane(first daughter of yoshisaburo nakane,died on december 29,1915)
second son:zenji(september 8,1871-march 10,1872)
thrid son:takuma(october 5,1872-july 5,1873)
fourth son:atsushi tokugawa(february 21,1874-june 12,1930)
second daughter:kinko(april 3,1875-july 22,1875)
fourth daughter:fudeko(july 17,1876-november 30,1907,married masaaki hachisuka on december 26,1895)
fifth daughter:hisako(august 17,1878-october 8,1878)
seventh daughter:namiko(september 17,1880-january 13,1954,married hitoshi matsudaira on december 7,1895)
eighth daughter:kuniko(january 23,1882-september 11,1942,married kiko okochi on may 7,1901)
tenth daughter:itoko(september 18,1883-october 11,1953,married takachika shijo on may 19,1906)
a boy(stillborn on august 22,1884)
eighth son,yasushi(september 22,1885-july 2,1886)
ninth son,makoto tokugawa(october 31,1887-november 11,1968)
a girl(stillborn on june 2,1891)
concubine:yoshi(tatsugoro shinmon's daughter)
works related to yoshinobu tokugawa
novels
"the last shogun-tokugawa yoshinobu" (ryotaro shiba)
"tokugawa yoshinobu" (sohachi yamaoka)
movies
"when the last sword is drawn(movie)" 2003,starring hideaki ito
drama series
"ryoma ga yuku(nhk taiga drama)" (1968,nhk taiga drama,yoshinobu performed by tatsunosuke onoe(the original))
"ooku(tv drama)produced in1968,drama content" (1968,fuji television,yoshinobu performed by shigeru amachi"
"katsu kaishu(nhk taiga drama)" (1974,nhk taiga drama,yoshinobu performed by masahiko tsugawa)
"kashin(nhk taiga drama)" (1977,nhk taiga drama,yoshinobu performed by takao ito)
"ryoma ga yuku 1982 version" (1982,tv tokyo new year's wide historical drama,yoshinobu performed by tomoki kenmochi)
"ooku(tv drama)produced in 1983,drama content" (1983,fuji television,yoshinobu performed by gaku yamamoto)
"byakkotai(a tv drama of nippon television)" (1986,nippon television end-of-the-year historical drama special,yoshinobu performed by nobuyuki ishida)
"hana no shogai ii tairo to sakuradamon(a flamboyant life,ii tairo and sakurada-mon gate)" (1988,tv tokyo 12-hour super wide drama,yoshinobu performed by ikuo kokubun)
"goryokaku(tv drama)" (1988,nippon television end-of-the-year historical drama special,yoshinobu performed by nobuyuki ishida)
"tobu ga gotoku(nhk taiga drama)" (1990,nhk taiga drama,yoshinobu performed by kunihiko mitamura)
"katsu kaishu(tv drama)" (1990,nippon television end-of-the-year historical drama special,yoshinobu performed by masahiko tsugawa)
"tokugawa yoshinobu(nhk taiga drama)" (1998,nhk taiga drama,yoshinobu performed by masahiro motoki)
"ooku(tv drama)produced in 2003,drama content" (2003,fuji television,yoshinobu performed by ginnojo yamazaki)
"matamo yametaka teishudono-bakumatsu no meibugyo,oguri kozunosuke-(quitting job again,mr.husband?-the great magistrate at the end of the edo period,oguri kozukenosuke)" (2003,nhk new year's historical drama,starring yoshinori hiruma)
"shinsengumi!" (2004,nhk taiga drama,starring yoshinobu performed by tomohiko imai)
"atsuhime(nhk taiga drama)" 2008,nhk taiga drama,yoshinobu performed by takehiro hira)
historical resources
"sekimukai hikki" (memoirs)
"tokugawa yoshinobu-ko den(a biography of yoshinobu tokugawa)" by eiichi shibusawa,1918
"shogun ga totta meiji-tokugawa yoshinobu-ko satsuei shashinshu(meiji as photographed by a shogun-an album of photographs taken by yoshinobu tokugawa" asahi shinbun-sha,1986,isbn 4022555599
notes
