norizane kujo
norizane kujo(1211-april 24,1235)was a court noble during the middle of the kamakura period.
his father was michiie kujo.
his mother was rinshi who was a daughter of kintsune saionji.
his younger brothers were yoshizane nijo who was the founder of the nijo family,sekke shogun(shogun from a regent family),and sanetsune ichijo who was the founder of the ichijo family.
he was called toin sessho.
when the third shogun minamoto no sanetomo was assassinated in 1219 and the blood line of the minamoto family died out,he was seen as a candidate for shogun because his parents were on minamoto no sanetomo's mother's side,but he established the kujo family because his younger brother yoritsune became shogun.
in 1227 he became udaijin(minister of the right)and in 1231 sadaijin(minister of the left),in the same year he inherited kanpaku,ujichoja(chief adviser to the emperor,chieftain of the family)from his father,but the real power was wielded by his father michiie.
in 1232 when emperor shijo ascended to the throne,he assumed the post of regent.
after that,on september in 1233,empress sonshi kujo died,and on august in the following year emperor gohorikawa(father of emperor shijo)died as well,which was considered to be due to the grudge of emperor gotoba who was the uncle of the retired emperor gohorikawa according to rumors.
for this reason,he consulted with the bakufu(japanese feudal government headed by a shogun)in 1235 so that cloistered emperor gotoba,who had been exiled to oki province,could come back to the capital kyoto,but this ended up in failure and he died in march in the same year.
record of office and rank
date＝lunar calendar
on april 28,1217,he celebrated his attainment of manhood,was promoted to shogoinoge(senior fifth rank,lower grade)and made jiju(a chamberlain).
he was allowed to wear the kinjiki(literally, "forbidden colours," seven colours tradionally reserved for the imperial family and nobility).
on june 29 he was transferred to ukone no shosho(minor captain of the right division of inner palace guards)
on january 5,1218 he was promoted to jushiinoge(junior fourth rank,lower grade).
on january 13 he was appointed assistant governor of omi province.
on january 16 he retained his position as ukone no shosho(minor captain of the right division of inner palace guards).
on april 9 he was promoted to jushiijo(junior fourth rank,upper grade)and retained his positions as ukone no shosho and assistant governor of omi province.
on january 5,1219 he was promoted shoshiinoge(senior fourth rank,lower grade)and retained his positions as ukone no shosho and assistant governor of omi province.
on april 8 he was promoted to jusanmi(junior third rank)and retained his position as ukone no shosho.
on april 6,1220 he was promoted to shosanmi(senior third rank)and retained his position as ukone no shosho.
on january 5,1221 he was promoted to junii(junior second rank)and retained his position as ukone no shosho.
on january 24,1222 he was transferred to gon chunagon(provisional vice-councilor of state)and also acted as ukone no shosho.
on december 22,1222 he was promoted to shonii(senior second rank)and retained his positions as gon chunagon and ukone no shosho.
on december 17,1224 he also became sakone no daisho(major captain of the left division of inner palace guards)and left the post of ukone no shosho.
on january 5,1225 he also filled the post of samaryo gogen(inspector of the samaryo,left division of bureau of horses).
on july 6 he was transferred to gon dainagon(provisional chief councilor of state)and remained as sakone no daisho and samaryo gogen.
on september 10 he also filled the position of tachibanashi choja(chieftain of the tachibana family)(the example of also filling the position of the fujiwara clan).
on april 9,1227 he was transferred to udaijin.
on april 13 he retained his positions as sakone no daisho and samaryo gogen.
on october 24,1230 he left the posts of sakone no daisho and samaryo gogen.
on april 26,1231 he was transferred to sadaijin.
on july 5 he was declared kanpaku by the emperor.
he was declared the head of the fujiwara clan by the emperor.
he retained his position as sadaijin.
on october 4,1232 he stopped to serve as kanpaku and was declared sessho(regent).
he retained his position as sadaijin.
on december 12 he was promoted to juichii(junior first rank)and retained his positions as sessho and sadaijin.
on april 28,1235 he resigned from the post of sessho.
on march 4 he resigned from the post of sadaijin.
passed away on march 28.
died at the age of 25.
