ina no iwasuki
ina no iwasuki is a person who lived during japan's asuka period,but his birth and death dates are not known.
ina's first name磐鍬also spells石次(iwatsugi).
his name is pronounced "ina no ihasuki" or "ihatsugi" in the old japanese kana syllabary.
ina's kabane(hereditary title)was 'ko.'
in the jinshin war of 672,ina no iwasuki was chosen as a messenger to mobilize troops for otomo no oji(prince otomo,who later became emperor kobun)from eastern provinces,but failed to complete the mission because he run away when the enemy blocked his way.
ina clan was one of those branched out from the imperial family,starting from kamitsuueha no oji(prince kamitsuueha,also called hono no oji or prince fire),son of emperor senka,and had a foothold in ina village of kawabe county in the settsu province.
when prince oama(emperor tenmu)raised an army against the imperial court in late june,672,the court at omi no miya,with prince otomo as leader,dispatched messengers to the regional allies,ordering to mobilize troops.
to the eastern regional allies,ina no iwasuki,fumi no kusuri,and oshisaka no omaro were sent.
however,the province of mino,which the messengers had to pass through,was the first region seized by prince oama,and his troops closed fuwa-no-seki checking station located on the border with the province of omi.
when the messengers came closer to the fuwa-no-seki checking station on the night of june 26,iwasuki thought that enemy soldiers may be hiding in the mountain,and proceeded alone,keeping a distance behind the others.
as iwasuki expected,they were ambushed and interrupted between iwasuki and others.
after witnessing the ambush,iwasuki ran away while fumi no kusuri and oshisaka no omaro were caught.
adding to the descriptions above which appears in the "nihonshoki" (chronicles of japan), "shaku nihongi," an annotated text of the nihon shoki,also says, "iwatsugi fled as soldiers of the enemy camp rose," citing diaries of tsuki no oumi and ato no chitoko.
the article in "shaku nihongi" shows that iwasuki's name was also written iwatsugi,with different kanji characters.
