takatoyo reizei
takatoyo reizei(1513-1551)was jugoinoge(junior fifth rank,lower grade)saemon no shojo(jr.lieutenant of the left division of outer palace guards).
he was a retainer of sengoku daimyo(japanese territorial lord in the sengoku period)the ouchi clan.
he was a child of okitoyo reizei.
he was the father of mototoyo reizei and motomitsu reizei.
his family line was a branch line of the ouchi clan.
the family started when his ancestor,whose mother's side of the family was a kugyo(court noble)of the reizei family,took the name on the mother's side and called himself the reizei family.
the reizei family was the family descended from a shihanke(family of grand master)of waka poetry whose founder was tamesuke,son of fujiwara no tameie.
he served yoshioki ouchi from early on,and after the death of yoshioki,he served yoshitaka ouchi who was a child of yoshioki.
in 1527 he battled at kokufu-jo castle in niho-shima island in aki province.
in 1541 he became the lord of kanayama-jo castle in aki province.
in 1542 he followed yoshitaka and he joined an expedition to izumo with motonari mori and others to fight their opponent the amago clan,but the entire army took flight.
in 1543 he battled in iyo.
after that,when a conflict between the bunchi-ha(non-military party)consisted of the lord yoshitaka,taketo sagara and others and the budan-ha(a political faction that is willing to resort to military means to achieve its aims)consisted of harukata sue and others became serious,takatoyo struggled to serve as go-between in order to avoid a riot of both parties.
it is said that,just before harukata raised a rebellion,takatoyo proposed yoshitaka to kill the criminal harukata but his proposal was not accepted.
in 1551 when harukata raised a rebellion,takatoyo ran away with yoshitaka.
when yoshitaka prepared to commit suicide,takatoyo served as kaishaku(suicide assistant).
it was said that takatoyo himself also bravely died in battle charging at the sue's army.
it was said that his loyalty was highly appreciated.
it was said that takatoyo was a person having both wisdom and courage,not only excelling in bravery but also being proficient in waka poetry.
his child,mototoyo reizei,served the mori clan and served as jodai(the keeper of castle)of moji-jo castle,but in 1562 he was killed on the battle field by attack from the otomo clan.
mototoyo's younger brother,motomitsu reizei,succeeded mototoyo and he worked as general of the navy.
jisei no ku(a poem written near the time of one's own death)
in mist,cloud and smoke are floating in the sky;inviting wind wiped everything away'
