fujiwara no keishi
fujiwara no keishi(also known as fujiwara no tsuneko)
the daughter of fujiwara no tsunehira
the fourth daughter of fujiwara no ienari
fujiwara no keishi(the daughter of fujiwara no tsunehira)
fujiwara no keishi(also known as tsuneko)(date of birth and death unknown)was a court lady during the late heian period.
keishi's father was fujiwara no tsunehira,jusanmi(junior third rank)dazai no daini(senior assistant governor-general of the dazai-fu offices).
one of her siblings was fujiwara no michitoshi.
she served emperor gosanjo and emperor shirakawa as naishi no suke(a court lady of the first rank).
being in emperor shirakawa's favor,keishi gave birth to a prince(cloistered imperial prince kakugyo)in april 1075.
she subsequently became the wife of sangi(councilor)fujiwara no kinsada.
fujiwara no keishi(the fourth daughter of fujiwara no ienari)
fujiwara no keishi(also known as tsuneko)(date of birth and death unknown)was a court lady during the late heian period.
her father was chunagon(middle councilor)fujiwara no ienari.
her siblings include fujiwara no takasue and fujiwara no narichika.
keishi was an adopted child of sadaijin(minister of the left)fujiwara no tsunemune.
becoming the lawful wife of taira no shigemori,keishi gave birth to taira no kiyotsune,taira no arimori,tairano no moromori and taira no tadafusa.
in 1166,keishi was awarded joshaku(conferring a peerage).
in november of that year,on the occasion of the investiture of the crown prince who subsequently became emperor takakura,keishi was appointed as his menoto(a woman providing breast-feeding to a highborn baby).
in 1168,when emperor takakura ascended the throne,keishi rose to junior fifth rank high naishinosuke(also called tenji).
at yasoshima festival in november 1169,keishi acted the role of the imperial messenger.
based on the rank of her husband shigemori,keishi was referred to as dainagon naishi no suke(secretary of the major councilor)or dainagon sanmi(but the time frame for being awarded junior third rank is unknown).
