katsumitsu hino
katsumitsu hino(1429-july 15,1476)was a kuge(court noble)in the muromachi period.
he was the head of the hino family,an important noble family.
he was a son of shigemasa hino,and his mother was mitsuko kitakoji.
his younger sister tomiko hino was the official wife of shogun yoshimasa ashikaga.
he inherited the headship of the hino family as his father masamitsu retired into priesthood when katsumitsu was six.
he made arrangements to make his sister become the lawful wife of shogun yoshimasa,helped yoshihisa ashikaga obtain the shogunate and had his daughter marry yoshihisa.
he was ultimately promoted to the sadaijin(minister of the left).
he also strived to accumulate a fortune and was referred to as 'oshi-no-otodo(the obtrusive minister)' for the scope of his authority.
he died in 1476.
there is a theory that he was poisoned to death by a doctor,shokei takeda.
his posthumous buddhist title is yuisho-in.
record of official titles and rank
december 25,1441:he celebrated his coming of age.
at the same time,he may have been promoted to jugoinoge(junior fifth rank,lower grade).
january 2,1447:he was promoted to ushoben(minor controller of the right).
may 10,1447:he was appointed as kurodo(chamberlain).
he remained as ushoben.
february 18,1448:he was promoted to shogoinoge(senior fifth rank,lower grade),while remaining as kuraudo and ushoben.
may 19,1450:he was then promoted to jushiinoge(junior forth rank,lower grade)and to uchuben(middle controller of the right)and was appointed as kurodo no to(head chamberlain).
in june of the same year,he was promoted to jushiinojo(junior fourth rank,upper grade),while he remained as kuraudo no to and uchuben.
he was promoted to udaiben(major controller of the right),while maintaining the position of kurodo no to on june 15.
on august 15,he was promoted to shoshiinoge(senior fourth rank,lower grade),while remaining as kurodo no to and udaiben.
on november 20,he was appointed a sangi(councillor),while remaining as udaiben.
february 15,1451:he was promoted to jusanmi(junior third rank),while remaining as sangi and udaiben.
in march,he was transferred to sadaiben(major controller of the left).
he remained as a councillor.
on may 6,he was promoted to gon chunagon(provisional middle counselor).
september 3,1452:katsumitsu was promoted to shosanmi(senior third rank),while remaining as gon chunagon.
october 18,1455:he was promoted to junii(junior second rank)and gon dainagon(provisional major counselor).
january 15,1460:he was promoted to shonii(senior second rank),while remaining as gon dainagon.
august 25,1465:he was promoted to juichii(junior first rank),while remaining as gon dainagon.
1466:katsumitsu was appointed as in no shitsushi(steward)of the retired emperor gohanazono.
march 20,1467:he was promoted to naidaijin(minister)and thus left the service of in no shitsushi.
december 1468:he resigned as naidaijin.
june 16,1476:he was appointed as sadaijin(minister of the left).
he resigned as sadaijin on july 14.
he died on july 15 at the age of 48.
posthumous buddhist name:yuishoinden enchokufu daikoji
