harusumi no amaneiko
harusumi no amaneiko(year of birth and death unknown)was a nyokan(court lady)/waka poet.
her roots
she was born as a daughter of harusumi no yoshitada,a court noble.
her father yoshitada was originally a member of the inabe clan,which was a powerful local clan based in inabe county,ise province,but he was granted the surname of harusumi no sukune in 828.
although yoshitada had four children,none of them achieved great success and the harusumi clan no more appeared in the history after amaneiko.
in september 873,after her father yoshitada's death,she went to her birthplace inabe county,ise province as the representative of the clan in order to offer hohei(a wand with hemp and paper streams)to ujigami(the local shinto deity).
as a court lady
amaneiko served for five successive emperors,emperor seiwa,emperor yozei,emperor koko,emperor uda,and emperor daigo.
although her original name was takako,she changed her name from takako to amaneiko in february 877 because the emperor yozei ordered court ladies whose names were the same as his mother fujiwara no takako to change names.
she was appointed to jushiinoge(junior fourth rank,lower grade)naishinojo(a woman officer who carries emperor's sword when she goes out)in 889.
later she became naishinosuke(a court lady of the first rank)and when the emperor koko died,she played a major role as reiingubu(a person holding the emperor's seal)under naishinokami(principal handmaid)fujiwara no yoshiko.
she was conferred jushiinojo(junior fourth rank,lower grade)in 896.
in 902,she was conferred a high rank of jusanmi(junior third rank).
she was particularly trusted by the emperor uda and the emperor's appreciation for amaneiko,who then worked at itodokoro(a government office belonged to nuidono-ryo(bureau of the wardrobe and court ladies)),was recorded in 'kanpyo no goyuikai' (emperor uda's injunction).
at the enthronement ceremony of the emperor daigo,she played a major role as kenjishi(a person to hold the emperor's sword).
as a waka poet
she was acquainted with fujiwara no onshi,nyogo(a consort of emperor)of emperor uda,and the following waka poem was compiled in kokin wakashu(a collection of ancient and modern japanese poetry).
chiruhanano nakunushitomaru mononaraba wareuguisuni otoramashiyaha' (if a song of bird can stem the falling of flowers,my voice is not inferior to that of a bush warbler).
according to yamato monogatari,in which she appeared as the head of itodokoro,she participated in the poem contest held at onshi's salon along with waka poet ise(waka poet),hyoe no myobu(fujiwara no takatsune's wife),and ichi no miko(imperial princess kinshi,onshi's only daughter).
