yukihisa shimazu
yukihisa(以久)shimazu(august 12,1550-may 31,1610)was a busho(japanese military commander)of the shimazu clan,who lived during the sengoku period(period of warring states).
he was the first head of a branch domain of the satsuma domain in hyuga province.
he was the first son of tadamasa shimazu who was takahisa shimazu's younger brother.
his mother was the daughter of hisachika(久親)sata.
his lawful wife was tokihisa hongo(divorced later).
the second wife was from the matsuki clan(concubine,according to another theory).
his children included akihisa shimazu(the first son,who died young,the founder of the tarumi-shimazu family),shigetoki irikiin(the second son,adopted by shigetoyo irikiin who was a retainer of the shimazu head family),tadaoki shimazu(the third son,and a daughter(the wife of tadayoshi hongo).
his official court rank was jugoinoge(junior fifth rank,lower grade),and the government post was uma no kami(captain of the right division of bureau of horses).
his childhood name was matashiro and his original name were written as幸久(yukihisa)and征久(yukihisa).
his buddhist name was gyojinbo(堯仁坊).
he was given an important position by yoshihisa shimazu,being considered as a member of the shimazu clan.
in toyotomi chinzei gunki(kyushu war chronicles by hideyoshi toyotomi),there is a description about him as, 'shimazu uma no kami masahisa' (masahisa shimazu,uma no kami),and seems that he was receiving an equivalent treatment to taisho(general)in the shimazu army stationed at higonokuchi.
during the battle of mimi-kawa in 1578,he fought actively and made an outstanding military achievement.
in 1603,he was given a territory of 30,000 koku(5411.7 cubic meters)crop yields at hyuga sadohara,which was the former territory of toyohisa shimazu who died in the battle of sekigahara and became the first lord of the domain.
by the order of tenka bushin(construction order by tokugawa shogunate),he was brought out to the construction of shinoyama-jo castle,and while he was staying in kyoto,he died of illness(there is a different argument).
his grave can be found at daiun-in temple in kyoto(current higashiyama ward,kyoto city).
incidentally,daiun-in temple is also nobutada oda's family temple.
as he was taken into care by the chief priest of daiun-in temple on this occasion,the shimazu clan of the sadohara domain converted its family religious sect to the jodoshu sect(the pure land sect)from the sotoshu sect.
yukihisa's homyo(a posthumous buddhist name)was 'kogetuinden-shoyo-sofunjo-daikoji' (高月院殿照誉宗憤恕大居士).
his third son tadaoki succeeded to his position.
