mitsuakira ashikaga
mitsuakira ashikaga(july 7,1364-june 27,1418)was a military commander and gon-dainagon(provisional manor councilor)who lived in the period of the northern and southern courts(japan)and the muromachi period.
he was the fourth son of yoshiakira ashikaga,the second shogun of the muromachi bakufu(japanese feudal government headed by a shogun).
his mother was ki no yoshiko.
he was a younger brother from the same mother of yoshimitsu ashikaga,the third shogun of the muromachi bakufu.
his childhood name was otowakamaru.
he was called ogawadono.
biography
he was in a position to always secretly support his elder brother in bakkaku(bakufu administration)and he,leading several hundreds of warriors,joined yoshimitsu when yoshimitsu took the field to to-ji temple in 1378.
he lived with his real mother,ki no yoshiko in ogawadai in mushanokoji and was successfully promoted to jusanmi(junior third rank)sangi(councilor)in 1402 and junii(junior second rank)gon-dainagon in 1403.
in the same year,he entered the priesthood having his head shaved by yoshimitsu in ogawadai and his priest name was dochi katsuyama
he died from a disease in the same year,and was cremated in toji-in temple.
reportedly,on the occasion of his funeral,it was said "everybody lamented his death as if it were their own father which had died."
he was conferred juichii(junior first rank)sadaijin and his posthumous name was yotoku-in.
fujiwara no masako was his wife and she gave birth to jien,but yoshimitsu called her while mitsuakira was still alive and made her give birth to gijo kajii.
this episode tells completely opposing ways of life of yoshimitsu,who had continuously unheard-of love affairs throughout his life,and of mitsuakira who had been always been obedient to his elder brother.
career in government posts and official ranks
*date＝lunar calendar
on january 8,1376,he was conferred jugoinoge(junior fifth rank,lower grade)
on february 18,1380,he was appointed to the sama no kami(military administrator).
in january 1387,he was promoted to jugoinojo(junior fifth rank,upper grade)
retained his position as sama no kami.
on december 12,1388,he was promoted to jushiinoge(junior fourth rank lower grade)and shifted to the sahyoe no kami(wind general)
on january 6,1402,he was promoted to shoshiinoge(senior fourth rank,lower grade).
retained his position as sahyoe no kami.
on march 28,he was appointed to the sangi.
on august 21,he was promoted to jusanmi(junior third rank).
on august 22,he resigned as the sangi.
on june 14,1403,he was moved to the gon-chunagon(provisional middle councilor).
on december 3,he was promoted to junii(junior second rank)and shifted to the gon-dainagon.
on december 7,he became a priest.
