fujiwara no yoshikado
fujiwara no yoshikado(years of birth and death not known)was a noble and retainer of imperial court who lived in the beginning of the heian period.
he was the sixth son of fujiwara no yoshitsugu,who was sadaijin(minister of the left).
his rank was jushiinojo(junior fourth rank,upper grade)and his post was udoneri(ministerial equerry).
he held the rank of jushiinojo(junior fourth rank,upper grade),but it seems that he died young and little is known about his achievements.
if we look at his descendants,however,his son,fujiwara no takafuji was promoted to naidaijin(inner minister)because his daughter,fujiwara no inshi(or taneko)was the mother of the emperor daigo,and established for him early in his life a position in noble society.
later in insei period(a period of government by the retired emperor),the family of fujiwara no tamefusa,who was family head eight generations after yoshikado,prospered by gaining power and became one of clans that represent the northern house of the fujiwara clan.
centering on this lineage,many famous people in history came from the lineage of yoshikado.
descendants
toshimoto's descendants.
murasaki shikibu-author of "genji monogatari" (the tale of genji),which represents the narrative literature of the heian period.
she was a great-great-granddaughter of toshimoto.
fujiwara no kunitsuna-dainagon(chief counselor of state).
he was an influential vassal in the period of the taira clan government.
fujiwara no ietaka(junii(junior second rank))-waka poet in the beginning of the kamakura period.
ii clan-descendants of tomoyasu ii who was a descendant after five generations of fujiwara no toshiyo,who was a son of toshimoto.
nukina clan-known as nichiren's home.
descendants of masanao nukisa,who was a fourth generation descendant of tomoyasu ii.
takafuji's descendants.
fujiwara no akitaka-a typical in no kinshin(the retired emperor's courtier)called "kanpaku(chief adviser to the emperor)of the night."
founder of the hamuro family.
fujiwara no tsunefusa-gon dainagon(junior chief of the councilor of state)
founder of the yoshida family.
families of kajuji line-various families such as yoshida,hamuro,seikanji family,madenokoji family,nakamikado family,kajuji family and bojo family
descendants of fujiwara no sadakata,who was a son of takafuji.
uesugi clan-descendant of shigefusa uesugi,who belonged to the kajuji line.
