saneyo toin
saneyo toin(1308-september 22,1358)was a court noble who served the southern court(japan)in the period of the northern and southern courts(japan).
his father was kinkata toin.
he was the illegitimate elder brother of sanenatsu toin.
his children included kinko toin,mother of kanetsugu konoe(became an adopted daughter of sanenatsu),尼尊悟and尼理摘("sonpi bunmyaku" (a text compiled in the fourteenth century that records the lineages of the aristocracy)/"sesshokaden").
he was called 'yoki no sadaijin' ("shinyo wakashu" (collection of new pages).
he,as a leader of the southern court,administered affairs of state with moromoto nijo,chikafusa kitabatake,and takasuke shijo.
he died of 'hydrops' in the southern court on september 22,1358("entairyaku"(diary of kinkata toin)).
achievements
from early on,he took a leadership role in the movement to overthrow the shogunate,including his participation in the unrestricted binge as a close aide of emperor godaigo("taiheiki" (the record of the great peace))and also led the overthrow of the shogunate in the genko war,and,thus,shortly after being captured by the rokuhara tandai(an administrative and judicial agency in rokuhara,kyoto)he was deprived of his government posts.
in addition,on april 10,1332(old calendar),with the intention of the shogunate,he was penalized to be put in the custody of his father,kinkata at his residence.
he regained his government posts upon the start of the kenmu restoration,and in august 1334(old calendar)assumed the office of second zasso-ketsudansho(agency of kenmu government to file lawsuits)(in charge of tokai-do road)and displayed his power as one of the top officials of the government.
when takauji ashikaga rose in revolt in the kanto region,he charged forward through tokai-do road and fought("kutsuna family's notes"),but was defeated and escaped to saigoku(western part of japan(esp.kyushu,but ranging as far east as kinki)).
after the emperor took refuge in the sanmon gate(temple gate),he led troops into rakuchu(inside the capital kyoto)and fought against the ashikaga side again,but shortly drew off this time also,
at the time of kyoto kanko(the emperor coming back to kyoto),he received a secret order,went to the hokuriku region with imperial prince tsuneyoshi,yoshisada nitta,and yoshisuke wakiya and tried to find another chance for the court's side("jinno shotoki" (a chronicle of gods and sovereigns)),but,here again,the war situation was not favorable and he eventually left the battlefield giving up halfway and entered yoshino.
after the enthronement of emperor gomurakami,he became a pillar of the southern court supporting the infant new emperor with chikafusa and takasuke("taiheiki").
he actually took such an active part as,in fall of 1349,he entered iga province where he trained the local southern court forces("documents of the aso family")and around 1351,he was ordered to go down to kyushu("documents of the aso family")(but,eventually his going down to kyushu was cancelled).
upon the shohei no itto(temporal unification of the northern and southern courts),a rumor went around that he would govern kyoto with takasuke("entairyaku"(diary of kinkata toin)).
although he went to the front in the battle of otokoyama,the southern court forces collapsed completely and he escaped to tojo,kawachi province with 'son' (kinko?).
he was a member of mushadokoro(place where samurai of guard of the imperial palace is staffed)of the southern court("documents of tsuboi hachiman shrine and tsuho-ji temple".
he signed his name as 'gon chunagon(a provisional vice-councilor of state)and saemon no kami(captain of the left division of outer palace guards),fujiwara no asomi'),and engaged in lawsuit office work,which can be confirmed.
there is an opinion that 'minister of the left' of 'people in service' appearing in 'chodan' mokuroku("kumeta-dera monjo"(written materials of kumeta-dera temple))dated september 17(old calendar),1357 was saneyo("dai nihon shiryo" (the historical materials of japan)and so on)).
personality and reputation
he is generally said to have been a hard-liner against the muromachi bakufu(japanese feudal government headed by a shogun)(shinichi sato and so on).
according to "taiheiki," he deeply opposed the onsho(reward grants)emperor gomurakami granted to yoshisuke wakiya who had returned to yoshino after being defeated by the army of bakufu in hokuriku region,referring to the historical event of taira no kiyomori who promoted taira no koremori having been defeated and routed in the battle of fujigawa,but,when takasuke shijo pointed out the awkwardness of his remarks,he left the room without a word of refutation.
according to "taiheiki" again,in debate over the treatment of tadayoshi ashikaga who surrendered to the southern court influenced by the kanno disturbance,while moromoto nijo suggested an immediate pardon,saneyo insisted on the death penalty.
in addition,he is said to have opposed negotiations between the imperial court and the shogunate which was arranged by the relatives of the kusunoki clan after the failure of the shohei no itto.
considering all of these anecdotes together,he seems to have had a rigid way of thinking,but on the other hand,the author of "taiheiki" praised saneyo as a 'capable person' and chugan engetsu wrote a poem describing him as a 'subject of wisdom' ("tokai ichioshu").
record of offices and ranks held
date according to old lunar calendar
september 6,1313:he was raised to the peerage.
september 21,1314:he was promoted to jugoinojo(junior fifth rank,upper grade).
january 5,1317:he was promoted to shogoinoge(senior fifth rank,lower grade).
january 22,1318:he was appointed chamberlain.
november 21,1318:he was promoted to jushiinoge(junior fourth rank,lower grade).
january 2,1322:he was promoted to jushiinojo(junior fourth rank,upper grade).
june 17,1322:he was appointed ushosho(major general of the institution for guarding the emperor).
july 23,1327:he was deprived of fourth rank and the iki(court rank diploma)was confiscated for some reason,but,at the same time,he was appointed kurodo(chamberlain).
november 10,1327:he was appointed gon sachuben(provisional middle controller of the left).
september 26,1328:he was promoted to shoshiinojo(senior fourth rank upper grade).
november 9,1328:he was promoted to jusanmi(junior third rank).
january 13,1330:he was appointed zo-todaiji-chokan(the director for the construction of todai-ji temple)(in march,emperor godaigo visited todai-ji temple).
march 1330:he was appointed and promoted to gon chunagon and shosanmi(senior third rank).
december 14,1330:he was appointed kebiishi no betto(superintendent of the imperial police).
october 5,1331:he was deprived of his government posts due to his participation in the genko war.
september 23,1333:he was appointed shuri no daibu(master of the office of palace repairs).
december 17,1334:he was appointed daigaku no kami(director of the bureau of education).
march 2,1336:he was promoted to shonii(senior second rank).
1339:he was appointed gon dainagon(provisional chief councilor of state)in the southern court("keizu sanyo" (pedigree charts of edo period),which also includes the following descriptions).
1347:he was appointed udaisho(major captain of the right division of inner palace guards)in the southern court.
october 1348:he was promoted to juichii(junior first rank)in the southern court.
1353:he was appointed udaijin(minister of the right)in the southern court.
march 7,1355:he was appointed sadaijin(minister of the left)in the southern court.
