taira no tokimochi
taira no tokimochi(877-may 1,938?)was a court noble in the first half of the heian period.
he was the eldest child of taira no korenori,who was the child of taira no takamune(prince takamune),which means he was the great-great-grandson of emperor kanmu.
his mother was a daughter of the governor of hitachi province,shihon(the fourth-ranked imperial prince),kenshu danjonokami,imperial prince saneyasu.
chinki taira and taira no masaki were his children.
the date of his death is said to be either on may 2,or may 3.
career
*dates are in the old calendar.
on february 17,895,he was appointed to a post in suo province.
on july 13,897,he was appointed to jugoinoge(junior fifth rank,lower grade).
retained his position as suo no gonnosuke(supernumerary vice governor of suo province).
on august 20,900,he was transferred to the position of sakyo no suke.
on february 26,904,he was transferred to minbusho(ministry of popular affairs).
on january 7,908,he was promoted to jugoinojo(junior fifth rank,upper grade).
retained his position as minbu shoyu(junior assistant minister of popular affairs).
on august 28,he was transferred to okura-sho(ministry of the treasury)in okurasho ritsuryo sei(the political system based on the codes of the ministry of finance).
on may 9,910,he was transferred to emonfu(headquarters of the outer palace guards).
on june 25,915,he was transferred to okura-sho(ministry of the treasury)under the okurasho ritsuryo system(alternatively,okura-sho under the in okurasho ritsuryo system).
on march 28,916,he was transferred to benkan(oversight department:division of the daijokan responsible for controlling central and provincial governmental offices).
on january 7,917,he was promoted to shogoinoge(senior fifth rank,lower grade).
retained his position as gon ushoben(provisional minor controller of the right).
on january 12,918,he was transferred to benkan(oversight department:division of the daijokan responsible for controlling central and provincial governmental offices).
on march 28,he was appointed to zo-todaiji-kodo-chokan(the director for the construction of todai-ji temple lecture hall).
on january 28,919,he was transferred to the position of benkan.
on january 7,921,he was promoted to jushiinoge(junior forth rank,lower grade).
retained his position as sashoben(third-ranked officer of the left).
on january 30,he was transferred to shurishiki(office of palace repairs).
on april 29,923,he assumed the additional post of togu no suke(assistant master in the crown prince's quarters to prince yasuyori,the son of imperial prince yasuakira).
on june 27,tenjobito(a high-ranking courtier allowed into the imperial palace).
on february 1,924,he took an additional post in shinano province.
on january 30,925,he took an additional post in iyo province.
transferred to shinano gonno-kami(senior provincial governor of shinano).
in the same year,the post of togu no suke was abolished due to the death of prince yasuyori.
on february 9,927,he was appointed to kurodo no to(head chamberlain).
retained his position as shuri no daibu(master of the office of palace repairs)and iyo no kami(governor of iyo province).
on january 7,928,he was promoted to jushiijo(junior fourth rank,upper grade).
retained his position as kurodo no to(head chamberlain),shuri no daibu and iyo no kami.
on june 9,he was transferred to the position of benkan.
retained his position as kurodo no to(head chamberlain)and shuri no daibu.
on january 29,930,he was appointed to sangi(councilor).
retained his position as udaiben(major controller of the right)and shuri no daibu(master of the office of palace repairs).
in 931,he assumed an additional post in sanuki province.
on october 24,933,he assumed the additional post of benkan.
transfer to udaiben(major controller of the right).
on january 7,934,he was promoted to shoshiinoge(senior fourth rank,lower grade).
he remained in the positions of sangi(councilor),sadaiben(major controller of the left)and shuri no daibu.
on march 8,937,he was promoted to jusanmi(junior third rank),and was transferred to chunagon(vice-councilor of state).
he passed away either on march 24,25 or 26.
he died at the age of 62.
