sadakiyo ishikawa
sadakiyo ishikawa(year of birth and death unknown-may 3,1626)was a busho(military commander)and daimyo(japanese territorial lord)in the azuchi-momoyama period.
he was a son of mitsushige ishikawa.
he was the lord of inuyama-jo castle.
he was the governor of bizen province.
his original name was mitsuyoshi(光吉)or mitsuyoshi(三吉).
his go(pen name)was sorin.
shigemasa(soun)ishikawa was his son.
he served for hideyoshi toyotomi as a tsukaiban(a person responsible for order and patrol in the battlefield)and a kinno kirisaki sashimono tsukaiban,and rendered distinguished performance in the siege of odawara.
he became in 1590 the lord of inuyama domain in owari province,whose kokudaka(crop yield)was 12.000 koku(1 koku is about 180 litters)(later 120,000 koku),and he also worked as the daikan(local governor)of taiko kurairechi(the land directly controlled by taiko hideyoshi)of 100,000 koku owned by the toyotomi clan at kiso in shinano province.
in 1591,he took charge of the construction of nagoya-jo castle in hizen province which was supposed to be the base of the bunroku campaign.
he sided with the western camp in the battle of sekigahara,and he confined himself to inuyama-jo castle along with sadamichi inaba,norimichi inaba,masamichi inaba(the fourth son of ittetsu inaba),sadayasu kato,kazumasa seki and shigekado takenaka.
they however secretly contacted with naomasa ii of the eastern camp,promised to cooperate him and left the castle.
he then departed from the castle and participated in the battle by pitching a camp around kuchikitano,the west wing of ukita force.
his territory was confiscated after he was defeated,but his life was saved in exchange of 1,000 gold plates due to the fact that he released local samurai of kiso who were captured at inuyama-jo castle as the cooperators of the eastern camp,and the influence of terumasa ikeda.
thereafter,he shaved his head,called himself sorin and spent his rest of life in kyoto as a man of tea and a merchant(financial business).
according to 'tokugawa johoroku,' he was employed by bakufu(japanese feudal government headed by a shogun)in 1613 with the stipend of 500 koku.
he died in 1626.
his descendants became merchants.
connection to nobushige(yukimura)sanada
sadakiyo ishikawa's wife(some say shigemasa's wife)is believed to have been okane(okane-dono),the seventh daughter of nobushige sanada who is known as yukimura sanada.
it has been passed down that sorin,who had succeeded as a merchant(financial business)through the connection,assisted chikurin-in,the legal wife of nobushige(okane's mother and a daughter or adopted daughter of yoshitsugu otani),throughout her life after nobushige died in the siege of ozaka.
further,he built the graveyard and gorinto(a gravestone composed of five pieces piled up one upon another)for the couple of nobushige sanada at daiju-in,ryoan-ji temple in ukyo ward,kyoto city.
