fujiwara no sadayoshi
fujiwara no sadayoshi(1148-september 29,1209)was a kugyo(court noble)from the late heian period to early kamakura period.
he was the second son of fujiwara no sueyuki,sanuki no sanmi(third rank),belonging to the fujiwara no michitsuna line of the northern house of the fujiwara clan.
shonii(senior second rank),gon dainagon(provisional chief councilor of state).
he was entitled higuchi dainagon(chief councilor of state).
he was conferred a peerage at the rank of jugoinoge(junior fifth rank,lower grade)in 1152.
he then successively served as a provisional assistant governor of both harima and kaga provinces and as a governor of tango province.
he worked exclusively as a close vassal of the retired emperor goshirakawa,and based on the recommendation of the retired emperor he was appointed as kurodo no to(head chamberlain).
this was an exceptional promotion that placed him above those whose ranks were above him,such as fujiwara no masanaga.
even sadayoshi's step brother,kanezane kujo,described this as 'unprecedented' (written on january 13,1177 in "gyokuyo" (the diary of kanezane kujo)).
in 1178,he participated in emperor takakura's imperial visits to iwashizuhachiman-gu shrine and kamo-jinja shrine.
because of his service he was conferred a rank of jusanmi(junior third rank)in 1181.
during this time,however,he was dismissed from his position of sakone gon no chujo(provisional middle captain of the left division of inner palace guards)in the political coup of 1179,because he was one of the trusted vassals of the retired emperor.
however,he returned to his position in 1182.
he was promoted to gon chunagon(provisional vice-councilor of state)in 1184 and to chunagon(vice-councilor of state)in 1189.
he ultimately reached shonii gon dainagon,and he became the person who climbed to the highest position among the people of the michitsuna line.
he resigned from his position in 1198.
he became a priest in 1201,and he used the priestly name of joa.
his descendants continued as the nijo family and the hiramatsu family,but they became terminated during the middle ages.
