shoan shibata
shoan shibata(year of birth unknown-1586)was a busho(japanese military commander)in the azuchi-momoyama period.
his real family name was tachibana.
he was a totomi no kami(the governor of totomi province).
he became a monk and was called shoan.
in his family was reino shibata.
shoan shibata was a local samurai and a member of nozuinshu(nozuin was in ono region,bungo province;presently notsu machi,usuki city)and the shibata clan served the otomo clan.
he was the lord of asahidake-jo castle at the border between hyuga province and bungo province.
for those who served the otomo clan which had lost a lot of powerful vassals in the battle of mimi-kawa and was in rapid decline,it should have deserved exceptional promotion to be entrusted to defend the border.
still he understood it as degradation,held a grudge against it,and wait for his opportunity.
by the way,in the governance structure of the otomo clan,six members were placed called kahanshu(important vassals who could cosign and seal onto official documents)under the family head(according to yoshiaki otomo,kahanshu should consist of three members from dozokushu and other three members,although it was not abode by).
the kahanshu assisted the family head and plural members of kahanshu acted for the family head.
in addition,consideration was given that the positions of kahanshu were generally occupied by small feudal lords so that feudal overlords had no big voice.
also,members were placed called houbun to take the leadership of each field,still they were put in the state of having no voice against the center.
however,many people(three members from kahanshu)were killed at the battle of mimi-kawa,and the following disturbance diminished the number of kahanshu not to be sufficiently functional.
based on the reason mentioned above,for those who should have been a member of kahanshu,front line duty meant degradation.
according to the vol.7 of hosatsu gunki(the war chronicle of bungo province and satsuma province),a statement can be found to ichiyata hoashi,the roto(retainer),saying as follows.
i am the head of the shibata clan of bungo province.'
however,reino,the illegitimate child,despises us by taking advantage of the governor-general's favor.'
as for the family crest,reino has succeeded the otomo family crest and behaves as he wants.'
how regrettable we are to be degraded to tozama(outside feudal lord)!'
the resentment against reino is exactly the resentment against the head of the family.'
(statements of advocates followed.)'
this indicated his profound jealousy against reino.
in 1586 when the army led by iehisa shimazu invaded,shoan communicated secretly with him without delay and came under his command.
the shimazu clan felt so doubtful about shoan's prompt communication that it isolated shoan in the amatsura castle and his family in the hoshikawa castle.
on knowing shoan's rebellion,the otomo clan sent koresada saeki to punish him with death and surrounded the hoshikawa castle.
to rebel against the otomo clan was the will of shoan alone in the first place.
among those who had been besieged in the castle,daizen ashibetsu communicated secretly,and his wife and children as well as his family were captured to be forced to kill themselves at saeki saisho-ji temple.
shoan resented and at once rebelled against the shimazu clan which had not tried to help him,yet the army in the castle got confused.
holding the castle ended unsuccessfully without doubt and his life ended.
