funya no akitsu
funya no akitsu(787-april 30,846)was shogun and a politician in the heian period.
he was the fourth son of mimoro no ohara,a son of prince chinu,who was the first-ranked imperial prince naga,a son of the emperor tenmu.
funya no watamaro was his brother.
he had held positions such as udaiben(major controller of the right),sadaiben(major controller of the left),togu-daifu(the lord steward to the imperial prince),sakone no chujo(middle captain of the left division of inner palace guards),kebiishi no betto(superintendent of the imperial police)and uemon no kami(captain of the right division of outer palace guards).
according to the "kugyo bunin" (directory of the successive imperial officials),he was assigned to uemon no kami in 810,and the governor of kai province in 817 as a successor of fujiwara no masakawa after being ukone no shogen(lieutenant of the right division of inner palace guards),kurodo(chamberlain)and umanosuke(assistant captain,right division of bureau of horses),and in the following year,818,he was transferred to the vice governor of musashi province.
after being the governor of inaba province and moku no kami(chief of bureau of carpentry),he was assigned to the governor of kai province again in 822,but transferred to uhyoe no gon no suke(provisional assistant captain of the right division of middle palace guards)in 824.
after that,he moved to kyoto and was assigned to sangi(councilor)in shoshiinoge(senior fourth rank,lower grade)in 830 and worked as togu-daifu and so on.
in 832 he was assigned to the governor of musashi province again.
it is pointed out that his transformation from the governor of kai province to the vice governor of musashi province was related with the building of the imperial ranch which was made in the konin and tencho eras.
according to a theory,he died on march 27,843(there is a description on the year of his death in "shoku nihon koki" (later chronicle of japan continued)).
the akitsu clan,who was gozoku(local ruling family)in the yamato province,identified itself as his descendant.
the major official ranks
816:he was given jugoinoge(junior fifth rank,lower grade).
817:he was assigned to the governor of kai province.
830:he was assigned to sangi in jushiinoge(junior fourth rank,lower grade).
842:at the time of the zhowa incident,he was relegated to izumo ingai no kami(an officer in the izumu province).
843:he died and return to the position of jusiinoge.
