nagahiro kazanin
nagahiro kazanin(march 3,1736-september 13,1769)was a high-rank court noble in the middle of the edo period.
most of his time was spent in the service of emperor momozono(the 116th)and emperor gosakuramachi(the 117th)in succession,and his official court rank culminated at shonii gon dainagon(senior second rank,provisional chief councilor of state)and ukone no daisho(major captain of the right division of inner palace guards).
at first,he called himself 'kensai.'
his father was udaijin(minister of the right)tsunemasa kazanin.
his mother was a daughter of sukenobu takatsukasa(the youngest child of fusasuke takatsukasa),who was a master of tea ceremony.
udaijin yoshinori kazanin(the nakayama family)was among his adopted children.
he was conferred an official court rank in 1740.
nagahiro was on express track of promotion as the head of seigake(the second highest family status for court nobles)and served as jiju(a chamberlain)and sakone no shosho(minor captain of the left division of inner palace guards).
in 1749,he was given jusanmi(junior third rank)and joined the realm of kugyo(high-rank court nobles).
after working as sakone no chujo(middle captain of the left division of inner palace guards),gon chunagon(a provisional vice-councilor of state),toka no sechie geben(a kugyo who supervised the event of toka[ceremonial mass singing and stomp dancing]called toka no sechie held at the imperial court on around the fifteenth day of the first month of the year),uhyoe no kami(captain of the right division of middle palace guards),and sahyoe no kami;sahyonoe-no-kami(head of sahyoefu),he was assigned to gon dainagon(a provisional chief councilor of state)in 1753.
he was given the rank of shonii(senior second rank)in 1760 and assigned to ukone no daisho(major captain of the right division of inner palace guards)and umaryo gogen(inspector of the right division of bureau of horses)in 1768.
however,he succumbed to illness in the following year and stopped serving the imperial court.
he passed away in the same year.
he died at the age of 34.
