minamoto no yoshitaka(sahyoe no gon no suke[provisional assistant master of the left military guard])
minamoto no yoshitaka(year of birth and death unknown)was a busho(japanese military commander)who lived at the end of heian period and follows kawachi-genji(minamoto clan).
he was the second son of minamoto no yoshitada.
after his father was assassinated,he was raised by mother's side which belonged to the taira clan.
he held various positions such as sahyoe no jo(third-ranked officer of sahyoe-fu,the left division of middle palace guards),sama no jo(the third-ranked officer of samaryo[left division of bureau of horses])and hyogo no suke,and he was promoted to jushiinoge(junior fourth rank,lower grade),exceeding his father's court rank.
so,according to the historical materials written at that time,yoshitaka took pride in being the master of the minamoto clan.
while his elder brother minamoto no tsunekuni(genta kawachi tsunekuni)went down to kanto,minamoto no yoshitaka lived in kyoto was promoted steadily in government service as the taira family increased its power.
jugoinojo(junior fifth rank,upper grade)kawachi no kami(the governor of kawachi province)minamoto no yoshinari(kawachi no kami)was yoshitaka's son.
the direct descendant of minamoto no yoshitada's lineage was virtually succeeded by the descendants of minamoto no yoshitaka.
the descendants of yoshitaka successively served as hokumen no bushi(the imperial palace guards for the north side)and kept the lineage as samurai warriors who held the territory in kawachi province.
although persons who name the family name of minamoto in modern age are not necessarily connected to historical minamoto clan,the descendants of minamoto no yoshitaka take the family name of minamoto as the modern family name,and in the materials in edo period it is written that minamoto is a family name and minamoto is a surname.
in addition,the descendants of minamoto no yoshikiyo(sakyo no gon no daifu[provisional master of the eastern capital offices])and minamoto no yoshikatsu,as well as the descendants of minamoto no yoshitaka,take minamoto as their family name even in nowadays.
