fujiwara no yasuchika
fujiwara no yasuchika(922-march 31,996)was a kugyo(court noble)who lived during the middle era of the heian period.
he was the third son of fujiwara no nakamasa at kyoshiki(the capital bureau).
fujiwara no tokihime,his younger sister,was the lawful wife of fujiwara no kaneie,sessho(regent),and was the mother of emperor ichijo.
he became sangi(a councilor)at the rank of shosanmi(senior third rank).
in 953,he became rokui no kurodo(kurodo,sixth rank)from kurodo(chamberlain)for retired emperor suzaku,and was awarded the rank of jugoinoge(junior fifth rank,lower grade)at the age of thirty-six in 957,assuming settsu no kami(a governor of settsu province)the same post as his father's.
he was appointed to kokushu(governor)of yamato province at the rank of jugoinojo(junior fifth rank,upper grade)in 962,was awarded the rank of shogoinoge(senior fifth rank,lower grade)in 968,and then was appointed to togu-gonnodaishin(an official post of the imperial prince-related institute called "togubo")the next year.
when emperor enyu ascended the throne,he was awarded jushiinoge(junior fourth rank,lower grade)for his contribution to the enthronement,became togu no suke(an assistant master in the crown prince's quarters)in 984 after assuming kokushu of sagami province and kokushu of yamato province,and then was awarded the rank of jushiijo(junior fourth rank,upper grade)in the next year.
when the kanwa incident occurred,he became kurodo no to(the head chamberlain)and shuri gon no daibu(a provisional master in the office of palace repairs),and was awarded the rank of shoshiinojo(senior fourth rank upper grade)for his contribution to the enthronement of emperor ichijo.
receiving favors from fujiwara no kaneie,his elder bother-in-law,he was promoted next to kaneie's children as a maternal relative of the new emperor,being appointed to sangi(a councilor)and becoming a kugyo in 987.
even after that,he was awarded the rank of jusanmi(junior third rank)in 989 and shosanmi(senior third rank)in 991,but died while he assumed sangi and shuri gon no daibu at the rank of shosanmi.
