hirofusa seikanji
hirofusa seikanji(may 7,1633-november 25,1686)was a kugyo(a court noble)and a retainer of the imperial court during the early edo period.
he served four emperors:emperor meisho(109th),emperor gokomyo(110th),emperor gosai(111th)and the emperor reigen,and he promoted to juichii(junior first rank),gon dainagon(a provisional chief councilor of state).
his father was tomotsuna seikanji,gon dainagon.
his mother was the daughter of naidaijin(minister of the center)michimura nakanoin.
his wife was the daughter of nagayoshi takakura,gon dainagon.
amongst his sons were hirosada seikanji,gon dainagon,and naofusa madenokoji,gon dainagon.
amongst his daughters were the wife of gon chunagon(a provisional vice-councilor of state),sadamoto nonomiya;jukoin,the concubine of udaijin(minister of the right),tsunayoshi tokugawa(seii taishogun,literally, "great general who subdues the barbarians" for the edo bakufu);the wife of gon chunagon,tadataka kajuji;and the wife of gon chunagon,michiharu atago.
he was conferred a peerage in 1634.
after that,as hiratosho,he was gradually promoted to sahyoe no suke(assistant captain of the left division of middle palace guards),ushoben(minor controller of the right),kurodo(a skilled worker at a sake brewery),ushoben(minor controller of the right),sashoben(minor controller of the left),uchuben(middle controller of the right),kurodo no to(head chamberlain)and udaiben(major controller of the right).
he became sangi(councillor)in 1655 and was ranked with kugyo(a court noble).
after that,he became sashoben(minor controller of the left),toka no sechie geben(a kugyo who supervised many matters outside jomei gate at toka no sechie,imperial court ceremony),gon chunagon,and in 1669,jingutenso(shrine messenger to the emperor).
he served as denso(job title of the person that relays messages from the court's people to the emperor)until 1673.
he was appointed as gon dainagon in 1676.
he was reappointed as jingutenso in 1677 and served in this position until 1680.
he assumed the position of kamo-denso(kamo shrine messenger to emperor)in 1682 and served until the following year.
he was reappointed as gon dainagon in 1684,however,he resigned in 1685.
in the same year,1685,he was awarded the position of juichii(junior first rank).
his adopted son,hirosada seikanji,is known for having left the capital as inshi(a messenger from the retired emperor)of the retired emperor reigen at the return salute in the beginning of 1701,when there was ninjo(bloodshed)in the palace committed by naganori asano to yoshinaka kira.
