masanari inaba
masanari inaba(1571-october 14,1628)was a military commander during the period of warring states and the edo period.
he was the lord of jushichijo domain of the mino province and itoigawa domain of echigo province,and the first lord of mooka domain of shimotsuke province.
he was the first head of the head family of the inaba family of the masanari line.
he was the second son of masahide hayashi.
his mother was a daughter of a mr.ando.
his wife was shigemichi inaba's daughter,his second wife was shigemichi inaba's adopted daughter,fuku(kasuga no tsubone,toshimitsu saito's daughter),and his third wife was yasutoyo yamauchi's daughter.
he had two children with a daughter of shigemichi inaba,masatsugu inaba(eldest son)and a daughter(masayoshi hotta's wife).
he had a second son masakatsu inaba,a third son masasada inaba and a fifth son masatoshi inaba with kasuga no tsubone.
he had a tenth son masayoshi inaba and a daughter(a wife of the feudal lord of tsuchiura domain tanetsuna kutsuki)with yasutoyo yamauchi's daughter.
his adopted son was masasada inaba.
initially his surname was hayashi,but later on,as he married an heress of shigemichi inaba in mino province,he changed his surname from hayashi to inaba.
however,since shigemichi's daughter died,shigemishi adopted his niece fuku and married her to masanari.
later,fuku became kasuga no tsubone.
both masanari and his father-in-law served hideyoshi toyotomi,and due to an order from hideyoshi,masanari became an aide(chief retainer,fifty thousand koku)to hideaki kobayakawa,who became kobayakawa clan,and supported hideaki.
he played an active role in subjugation of ogasawara clan in shikoku and also fought to support hideaki at japan's invasion of korea(keicho campaign).
masanari and yorikatsu hiraoka had secret communications with ieyasu tokugawa during the battle of sekigahara in 1600,and masanari was able to convince hideaki to come over to the eastern army.
however,he came into conflict with hideaki after the war,and retired in mino province.
in 1602,after hideaki died and the kobayakawa clan discontinued,masanari became a masterless warrrior.
in july and august 1604,when the position of a wet nurse for ieyasu's legitimate grandchild,takechiyo(later called iemitsu tokugawa)was invited by the kyoto deputy katsushige itakura,his wife fuku applied for the position and was employed,after which masanari divorced fuku.
there are various theories concerning the reason behind their decision to divorce:masanari having an affair with another woman and fuku being furious over this fact and leaving him;masanari divorcing fuku after finding out she had applied for the position without masanari's permission;masanori divorcing her since he thought he would lose face if it was said that 'he had been promoted due to his wife's success' having discovered that fuku had got the position of wet nurse;and masanari and fuku pre-arranged their divorce by using the above-mentioned stories as possible grounds in order to enable masanari to serve ieyasu.
later on,masanari was appointed by ieyasu to serve him,and he became tokugawa clan's aide since then.
after he was given the land of 10,000 koku within the former mino province in 1607,he became a feudal lord of jushichijo domain,and then chief retainer of tadamasa matsudaira,who was ieyasu's grandchild.
in the summer siege of osaka,he successfully supported tadamasa,and was given the territory of 20,000 koku in itoigawa,echigo province in 1618.
in 1624,when he did not follow tadamasa's order to move masanari's territory to echizen,he became a masterless warrior again and was placed in confinement at home in the territory of his son masakatsu.
in 1627,he was called again to serve as an independent feudal lord,and was given the territory of 20,000 koku in mooka,shimotsuke province.
he was granted that he became successful due to his wife's help,like katsutoyo yamauchi,however,his success was not just credited to his wife but in his demonstrated ability both as a military commander during the summer siege of osaka and the battle of sekigahara.
masanari's descendants had continued until the meiji restoration as the lord of yodo domain of yamashiro province.
