tsunetane daigo
tsunetane daigo(august 21,1717-february 13,1781)was a high-rank court noble in the middle of the edo period.
he served five generations of emperors,emperor nakamikado(the 114th),emperor sakuramachi(the 115th),emperor momozono(the 116th),emperor gosakuramachi(117th),and emperor gomomozono(the 118th),and his official court rank culminated at juichii udaijin(junior first rank,the minister of the right).
his childhood name was 'kanekiyo.'
his go(pseudonym)was 'myokanji.'
his father was sadaijin(minister of the left)fuyuhiro daigo.
his mother was a daughter of yoshizane so,the lord of the tsushima domain.
his lawful wife was a daughter of yoshinobu so,the lord of the tsushima domain.
fuyuyoshi daigo and teruhisa daigo were among his children.
his adopted son was kanezumi daigo(the son of kaneka ichijo).
in 1722,he was conferred an official court rank.
tsunetane was on express track of promotion as the head of seigake(the second highest family status for court nobles)and served as jiju(a chamberlain)and sakone no chujo(middle captain of the left division of inner palace guards).
in 1729,he was given the rank of jusanmi(junior third rank)and joined the realm of kugyo(high-rank court nobles).
after working as gon chunagon(a provisional vice-councilor of state)and toka no sechie geben(a kugyo who supervised the event of toka[ceremonial mass singing and stomp dancing]called toka no sechie held at the imperial court on around the fifteenth day of the first month of the year),he was assigned to gon dainagon(a provisional chief councilor of state)in 1738.
in 1754,he was assigned to kone no daisho(major captain of the right division of inner palace guards)and umaryo gogen(inspector of the right division of bureau of horses)but temporarily stepped down from the posts in the following year.
he was conferred the rank of juichi(junior first rank)in 1760.
in 1778,he was assigned to udaijin(minister of the right)without experiencing naidaijin(minister of the center),but he resigned from the post in the following year.
in the same year,he changed his name to 'tsunetane.'
he adopted kanezumi,who came from the ichijo family,the main lineage,and appointed kanezumi as the heir of the daigo family.
