masayori rokkaku
masayori rokkaku(dates of birth and death unknown)lived in the latter half of the muromachi period.
he was a son of hisayori rokkaku and is considered to have been the father of takayori rokkaku(one theory has it that he was takayori himself).
he may have used the name shiro.
he was called kameju or kamejumaru in his younger days.
however,his adult name is not fixed,and is said to have been masakatsu or takasada.
he was the shugo(governor)of omi province.
after his father,hisayori,died,he was placed in the custody of his cousin,masataka rokkaku(a son of tokitsuna rokkaku),but was later stripped of his shugo post due to the shogunate's plans and masataka's ploys.
later,with masataka's fall from power,masayori regained his shugo post.
however,with the outbreak of the onin war not long after,kameju(masayori)joined the western army.
as a result of the war,the situation in the domains grew chaotic.
the rokkaku clan became divided,with masataka and masanobu(a son of mochitsuna rokkaku),supported by the kyogoku clan of northern omi,joining the eastern army.
with the cooperation of rokuro rokkaku of his clan,of the iba clan and of the yamanouchi clan as well,he won the battle,making masataka kill himself in 1471,and secured the headship of the rokkaku clan.
it is said that he fled to iga together with his son,takayori,when the rokkaku clan was chased by shogun yoshihisa ashikaga after the onin war.
many parts of the rokkaku clan family tree of the latter years of the muromachi period to the early sengoku(warring states)period are unclear.
therefore,there are many theories concerning who the person recorded as kameju rokkaku(kamejumaru rokkaku),who was active during the onin war,actually was.
the name of 'rokkaku shiro takayori' is found in "oninki" (the record of the onin war).
it is commonly believed that takayori was born after hisayori died(though there is also a theory that he was born before hisayori died).
therefore,it is supposed that he might be a son of hisayori and the father of takayori.
furthermore,it is sometimes said that the persons who were chased by yoshihisa and fled to iga were takayori and his heir,ujitsuna rokkaku.
however,this is questionable since ujiyori had not been born at that time.
therefore,there is also a theory that the person who fled to iga together with takayori was his father,masayori(masakatsu).
