sokan yamazaki
sokan yamazaki(1465?-november,17,1553)was a japanese renga(japanese collaborative poetry)poet and haikairenga(humorous or vulgar renga)poet in the sengoku period.
it is believed that his real name was norishige shina,as well as his common name was yasaburo,and that his birthplace was omi province.
however,there are various theories about his real name and birthplace--none of them has been confirmed.
although he had served(as kinju[attendant]or yuhitsu[private secretary])yoshinao ashikaga,the ninth seitaishogun(literally, "great general who subdues the eastern barbarians")in the muromachi period,he became a priest after yoshinao died in battle(in 1489)and led a secluded life in amagasaki of settsu province and takigi-mura village of yamashiro province.
afterward,he lived in a hermitage 'taigetsu-an' in yamazaki of yamashiro province(or settsu province?)and was called sokan yamazaki.
sokan-ido' (sokan-well)and 'the ruins of sokan's old house' remain in yamazaki,shimamoto-cho,osaka prefecture at present.
after leaving yamazaki around 1523,sokan had lived in another hermitage 'ichiya-an' within the precincts of kosho-ji temple in sanuki province(currently kannonji city,kagawa prefecture)since 1528,where he ended his life.
the name of the hermitage 'ichiya-an' (literally meaning a hermitage for one-night stay)seemingly originates in the fact that sokan,who avoided people staying too long,forbade people from staying two days or more.
repeated repairs have enabled the structure to remain at original site.
socializing with sogi,socho,moritake arakida and others,sokan contributed to the prosperity of haikairenga.
although only a few renga attributed to sokan remain,the anthology of haikairenga "inu tsukubashu," compiled in the earliest stage of the prevalence of haikairenga,introduces sokan's masterpieces.
their verse style with coarseness and boldness influenced danrin haikai(haikairenga of the danrin-ha school)in the early edo period.
together with moritake arakida,sokan is regarded as the founder of haikairenga.
sokan was also so famous as a distinguished calligrapher that he is said to have made his living by selling his calligraphic works.
he suffered from 'yo' (boil)in his late years,which deprived him of his life.
thus,his farewell poetry was 'if someone ask you where sokan is,please tell him or her sokan is in the other world for "yo" ("yo" meaning "business" is used as a pun here).'
