taira no kiyomune
taira no munemori(1170-july 26,1185)was a warlord in the late heian era.
he was the first son of taira no munemori who was the head of the taira clan and a grandson of taira no kiyomori.
his mother was a daughter of taira no tokinobu(a younger sister of taira no tokiko,kiyomori's legal wife).
taira no yoshimune was his brother.
at the favor of emperor go-shirakawa,kiyomune celebrated his genpuku(first wearing of the hakama)ceremony at age three,at which time the court rank of jugoinoge(junior fifth rank,lower grade)was conferred on him.
he was promoted to shosanmi(senior third rank)at the age of 13,in 1182.
upon learning that minamoto no yoshinaka was enroute to kyoto,the taira clan decided to flee the capital,absconding with the child emperor antoku,with kiyomune also following.
the taira clan had suffered defeat at several places,before being decimated in the battle of dannoura on march 24(lunar calendar),1185.
kiyomune and his father munemori had thrown themselves into the sea,attempting to commit suicide,but they were plucked from the sea and taken captive.
after being dragged through the streets of kyoto,the capital,they were sent to kamakura under guard by minamoto no yoshitsune in may.
in june,after munemori met with yoritomo,munemori and kiyomune were sent back to kyoto;however,on the way,kiyomune was beheaded by kagemitsu hori,a retainer of yoshitsune's,in shinohara shuku,omi province.
he was 16 years old(according to the old japanese method of counting years of age).
the graves of munemori and kiyomune are in shinohara,yasu city,shiga prefecture.
official career
the court rank jugoinoge(junior fifth rank,lower grade)was conferred on kiyomune on february 7,1172.
he was promoted to the court rank jugoinojo(junior fifth rank,upper grade)on february 25,1173.
he was appointed as chamberlain on march 5,1174.
he was promoted to the court rank shogoinoge(senior fifth rank,lower grade)on feburuary 23,1176.
he remained in his post as chamberlain.
he was appointed to a provincial governorship,which he held concurrently with his other post,on february 24,1178,
he was promoted to the court rank jushiinoge(junior fourth rank,lower grade)on february 18,1179.
he remained in his posts as chamberlain and bizen no suke(governor of bizen province).
he was promoted to the court rank jushiinojo(junior fourth rank,upper grade)on january 31,1180.
he remained in his posts as chamberlain and bizen no suke(governor of bizen province).
he was promoted to the court rank jusanmi(junior third rank)on july 1.
he remained in his posts as chamberlain.
he was promoted to shosanmi(senior third rank)on may 20,1182.
he remained in his post as chamberlain.
he was appointed to the post uemon no kami on february 23,1183.
he was dismissed from the office on september 1.
