tomotsune toshima
tomotsune toshima(year of birth unknown-november 27,1203)was a samurai(warrior)from the end of the heian period to the early kamakura period.
his grandfather(or father)was kiyomoto(kiyomitsu)toshima.
his father(or son)was aritsune toshima.
his son(or grandson)was tokimitsu toshima.
his official court rank was umanosuke(assistant captain,right division of bureau of horses).
he was commonly called taro.
in august,1180,minamoto no yoritomo who had raised an army against the taira clan was defeated by the taira side,including kagechika oba,in the battle of ishibashiyama and fled to awa province.
on september 30,yoritomo ordered kiyomoto who was the family head of the toshima clan and favored by the minamoto clan and his son,kiyoshige kasai,to go to awa province by sea and also ordered asatsune who were in kyoto to present cotton clothes to his wife and daughter.
kiyoshige kasai was an excellent busho(japanese military commander)with military exploits by joining an army of minamoto no noriyori,and he was appointed as sobugyo(general magistrate)in oshu region by flourishing in the battle of oshu,and consequently the kasai family became a great clan.
in august 1201,asatsune was appointed as tosa no kuni no kami(governor)in tosa province.
a letter in the name of tokimasa hojo remains,in which asatsune was ordered to forcibly enforce jitoshiki(stewardship rights)because local residents did not obey akimichi nakahara who was appointed as jitoshiki in fukabuchi-go and kosogabe-go in the same province.
in september 1203,asatsune was replaced by yoshimura miura for tosa no kuni no kami in tosa province.
on november 22 of the same year,mt.hiei's armed warrior priests built a fortress in mt.hachioji and caused a civil disorder by barricading themselves inside.
asatsune joined the government army with shigemoto kasai of the same clan(younger brother?)for subjugation and those priests were subdued,but three hundreds of the government army were killed,and shigetsuna sasaki,asatsune,and shigemoto also died in the battle.
according to 'kinrin-ji temple's genealogies of toshima' and 'yasumitsu's genealogies of toshima' created by yasumitsu toshima who was a hatamoto(direct retainer)in the edo period,asatsune was the oldest son of kiyomoto and his lineage became the main branch of the toshima family,but his name was not described in 'genealogies of toshima miyagi' by the miyagi family who was the clan's hatamoto(the lineage of kiyoshige kasai was to be the main branch of the family in this genealogy).
it is confirmed that aritsune,who was described as asatsune's son in the genealogy,was already the governor of kii province in 1184("negoro document required"),and thereby it is unnatural.
there is no name of asatsune in recently found 'genealogy of various lines of kanmu-heishi(taira clan)' created in the end of kamakura period.
therefore,asatsune's genealogical relationship is unknown.
the head family of the toshima clan went to ruin in the muromachi period and the genealogy was restored more than two hundred years later,with confusion in identification of the people,and in recent study,asatsune was believed to be a son of aritsune who was described as his son in the genealogy,and their parent-child relationship was reversed.
according to the genealogy reflected the recent study,their territory was confiscated by the bakufu(japanese feudal government headed by a shogun)at the time of tokimitsu toshima who was a son of asatsune(grandson in the previous genealogy),and the lineage of asatsune had ended.
