nagamine no morochika
nagamine no morochika(year of birth and death unknown)was a government official for tsushima province who lived during the heian period.
he was a fourth-ranked government official for the province.
personal profile
it is said that he conducted his own investigation into who was behind the toi invasion(the invasion of northern kyushu by jurchen pirates)and the whereabouts of the japanese captives that were kidnapped and put aboard toi ships,after which he reported his findings to the dazai-fu(local government office in kyushu region).
at the toi invasion in 1019,morochika was kidnapped by toi's ship with his mother,wife,sister,aunt,followers and many others;but he broke free from the ship by himself on the ship's way back home.
after that,morochika smuggled himself out of japan to goryeo,breaking the prohibition against crossing across the sea to search for his kidnapped family and the others,and asked who toi was and the whereabouts of the japanese caught by toi.
he then found that toi was assumed to have been the joshin tribe judging from their costume and weapons,and that they had left for japan after attacking villages near the coast of goryeo.
the goryeo army ambushed toi because they believed that toi would have returned from japan soon.
after a while,the toi's ship came back.
the goryeo army engaged and destroyed them,saving the japanese caught by toi.
tragically,however,morochika could not find his mother,wife and sister in the people saved by the goryeo army and found that they were killed by toi.
but fortunately,his aunt was alive.
morochika reported details of the invasion to the daijokan(grand council of state)of dazai-fu(local government office in kyushu region)with reports from the two ladies;石女uchikura and akomi tajimi who were rescued from the toi.
the reports enabled the officials at dazai-fu to learn who toi was and the whereabouts of the japanese captives,but morochika,who had broken the prohibition against overseas travel,was imprisoned as a criminal.
since there is no record of what happened to him after that,his whereabouts are unknown.
