sakaibe no kusuri
sakaibe no kusuri(year of birth unknown-august 5,672)is a historical figure who lived during japan's asuka period.
his name is also written as "坂合部薬" (sakaaibe no kusuri)
in the old japanese kana syllabary, "境部薬" is read as "sakahibe no kusuri" and "坂合部薬" as "sakaahibe no kusuri."
his kabane(hereditary title)is muraji.
in 658,he was sentenced to banishment in the coup of prince arima.
in jinshin war of 672,he fought on the side of prince otomo(emperor kobun)but was defeated to death in okinaga no yokokawa.
coup of prince arima
according to nihonshoki(chronicles of japan),in december 6 and 8,658,prince arima talked about raising an army with soga no akae in the capital,while empress saimei and crown prince naka no oe no oji(later emperor tenchi)were away to kinoyu(kino hot-spring).
"according to a story written in a book," nihonshoki says,it was said that prince arima,soga no akae,shioya no konoshiro,mori no oiwa and sakaibe no kusuri divined the result of the rebellion using sortition.
however,on the night of december 8,soga no akae laid siege to prince arima's house and informed the emperor of the plot.
on december 12,prince arima,mori no oiwa,sakaibe no kusuri and shioya no konoshiro were arrested and sent to kinoyu.
on december 14,prince arima was executed and sakaibe no kusuri was banished to owari province.
his deeds of valor in jinshin war indicates that sakaibe no kusuri was pardoned later.
therefore,some of current scholars say that sakaibe no kusuri originally plotted with soga no akae to bring down prince arima.
however,in this theory,there are no explanations about the difference of how to be dealt with between soga no akae,who was not convicted,and sakaibe no kusuri.
jinshin war
sakaibe no kusuri fought on the side of prince otomo(emperor kobun)in jinshin war
the army of prince oama(emperor tenmu)whose stronghold was built in fuwa county,mino province and the army of prince otomo that is based in otsu,the capital of omi province,fought in omi,july 7.
about this battle,nihonshoki(chronicles of japan)says that murakuni no oyori defeated the army of prince otomo in okinaga no yokokawa and killed the soldier,sakaibe no muraji kusuri.
in this article,it is unclear whether he was a commander of the army or just one of a soldier.
