ono no hatayasu
ono no hatayasu was a figure in the asuka period of japan(year of birth and death unknown).
in old japanese orthography,his name had been written as ohono no hatayasu,and it is considered to have been pronounced as ofono no fatayasu.
his kabane(hereditary title)was kimi.
although he fought for otomo no miko(prince otomo who has been called emperor kobun since the meiji era)as a general and defeated otomo no fukei at mt.nara(present nara city)in the jinshin war of 672,he withdrew before reaching the city of yamato.
later he became jikikoshi kyushiki-daibu(internal inspector at fifth rank).
the ono clan was a branch family of the kamitsukeno clan.
he had a son,ono no azumahito.
at the jinshin war,hatayasu was appointed to a general by the omi court with otomo no miko(prince otomo)at the top.
when otomo no fukei,who supported oama no miko(oshiama no miko or prince oama who became emperor tenmu following the victory in the war),took the city of yamato(the old capital of asuka)in control and moved toward the north,ono no hatayasu approached the nara basin from the north.
fukei camped at mt.nara,and hatayasu defeated fukei's army there.
hatayasu went after fukei to yakuchi to defeat his army,and went up to a hill to look down on the city of yamato.
as hatayasu noticed shields standing at each road,he was so afraid of fukei's ambush that he turned back.
in fact,those shields were placed by aratao no akamaro and imibe no kobito before the battle at mt.nara,and the real force for guarding the city was very poor and undermanned.
the hesitation of hatayasu gave fukei time to join the reinforcements and gather the withdrawing soldiers.
"nihonshoki" (chronicle of japan)includes no further achievement of hatayasu in it,but that of inukai no ikimi as a general supporting this area instead.
hatayasu might have been dismissed or under ikimi's command.
after the war,ono no hatayasu is considered to have been forgiven and served emperor tenmu and empress jito.
according to "shoku nihongi" (chronicle of japan continued),ono no azumahito died on december 7,742,and he was 'a son of jikikoshi hatayasu who had served as kyushiki-daibu(internal inspector)in the asuka dynasty.'
