jihei ogawa
the seventh generation jihei ogawa(1860-1933)was the gardener,who designed gardens and was a pioneer in the field of modern japanese garden.
his common name was ueharu(植治)(yago[the name of the store]).
he was born in kotari village,otoguni district,kyoto prefecture(the current nagaokakyo city).
he was adopted by ueharu ogawa,who owned the jihei gardening shop that continued from horeki era(1751-1764)in 1877,and he succeeded to the name of seventh generation jihei ogawa in 1879.
the each generation of ueharu inherited the yago inherited the name of, "jihei ogawa," even to this day.
as it could be observed from this photography,the sakutei(garden design)made by the seventh generation is well known,but some gardens claiming to be a creation of the seventh generation were made by the eighth and ninth generation,and confusion over this matter still continues to this day.
he took care of the kyoto imperial palace,katsura imperial villa,nijo-jo castle,and trees on the city streets in ueharu at that time,and also contributed to the shukei(landscape architecture)of places such as iwasaki tei(the residence of iwasaki)in tokyo.
the seventh jihei ogawa,who revived the field of gardening,was called gennosuke and left behind sakutei of heian-jingu shrine,maruyama park,murinan(official residence of aritomo yamagata),seifu so(the official residence of kinmochi saionji),tairyusanso(residence of yaichiro ichida),and gardens designated as the national site of scenic beauty,as well as many famous gardens such as the furukawa teien garden,heian-jingu shrine,the front yard of kyoto national museum,the residence of nomura hekiunso,sumitomo family(yuhoen,the residence of chausu-yama mountain,the residence of unagidani,sumiyoshi,the residence of hyomachi in tokyo city),mitsui family,iwasaki family,and the hosokawa family.
he also contributed to the sakutei and shukei of kyoto gyoen national park,goennai gosho,shugakuin imperial villa,katsura imperial villa,nijo-jo castle,kiyomizu-dera temple,nanzen-ji temple,myoshin-ji temple,honen-in temple,shoren-in temple,and ninna-ji temple.
well known gardens that he performed sakutei on.
garden of the namikawa yasuyuki memorial museum(the former studio of cloisonné art works of namikawa yasuyuki)in higashiyama ward,kyoto city.
murinan(official residence of aritomo yamagata)in kyoto city,kyoto prefecture and designated as the national site of scenic beauty.
heian jingu in kyoto city,kyoto prefecture and designated as the national site of scenic beauty.
yasaka-jinja shrine in kyoto city,kyoto prefecture.
hekiunso(the villa of tokuan,tokushichi nomura).
keiunkan garden in nagahama city,shiga prefecture and designated as the national site of scenic beauty.
garden of ichida tairyusan in kyoto city,kyoto prefecture and designated as the national site of scenic beauty.
maruyama park(kyoto prefecture)in kyoto city,kyoto prefecture and designated as the national site of scenic beauty.
the former furukawa teien garden(semi-european style and the european style was the work of josiah conder)in kita ward,tokyo and is designated as the national site of scenic beauty.
japanese-style garden of the international house of japan(the former toriizaka villa of the iwasaki family)in minato ward,tokyo,designated as the minato ward site of scenic beauty.
the garden of the former atami villa of the iwasaki family(yowajun)in atami city,shizuoka prefecture.
the garden of fugetsuro(the site of the residence of yoshinobu tokugawa)in shizuoka city,shizuoka prefecture.
the garden of kyoto national museum in kyoto city,kyoto prefecture.
seifu so(the former residence of kinmochi saionji)in sakyo ward,kyoto city.
kaiuso(the former residence of katsutaro inabata)in sakyo ward,kyoto city.
inabata waraku an in kyoto city.
keitakuen(the garden of the former residence of the sumitomo family)in tennoji ward,osaka city.
yuhoen of sumitomo shishigatani villa in sakyo ward,kyoto city.
shinshinan(the former villa of konosuke matsushita)in higashiyama ward,kyoto city.
rakurakuso(the garden of the former residence of gentaro tanaka)in kameoka city,kyoto prefecture.
the ohara villa in kobe city.
to-ji temple in kyoto city.
the doi garden of kodai-ji temple in kyoto city.
the garden of ninna-ji temple in kyoto city.
the garden of daitoku-ji temple in kyoto city.
the garden of chisuian(the villa of takaoki yokoyama)in kyoto city.
the garden of koun-ji temple in kyoto city.
the garden of jyukyuan of shimizu family in kyoto city.
yi yuan(the former villa of moritatsu hosokawa)in kyoto city.
shirakawa-in garden in sakyo ward,kyoto city.
the garden of shokuhoen(the former residence of yasoji tsukamoto and the iwasaki kyoto villa created by ueharu and his eldest son, "hakuyo" yasutaro)in sakyo ward,kyoto city.
the garden of the former residence of akinari ueda(currently the kyoto garden ryokan yachiyo)in sakyo ward,kyoto city.
the garden of rakusui(the garden of the former residence of kotaro fujita and currently yu resort kyoto rakusui)in sakyo ward,kyoto city.
takasegawa genryuteien(the garden of the source of takasegawa river)(the former residence of ryoi sumikura and official residence of aritomo yamagata and currently ganko takasegawa nijoen)in chukyo ward,kyoto city.
kyoto aoiden and kaisuien gardens of westin miyako hotel(kaisuien garden was designed by hakuyo)in higashiyama ward,kyoto city.
