muneharu yabe
muneharu yabe(1469-1489?)was a samurai of inaba province at the end of the muromachi period.
his father was sadatoshi yabe;his common name was hachiro.
career
muneharu was born as a son of sadatoshi yabe,the lord of wakasa-onigajo castle in inaba province.
in "chikamoto nikki" (chikamoto's diary)(in the article of august 27,1481 on the old calendar),muneharu first appeared on record as "hachiro yabe."
he was thirteen years old at that time,and got to see sadamune ise(伊勢貞宗),a mandokoro shitsuji(chief of the administrative board)of the muromachi bakufu,with his father sadatoshi.
given a character "宗" (mune)from sadamune,hachiro changed his name to "muneharu" (宗春).
according to some historical materials,muneharu often met with sadamune ise afterward.
the time when the child was given the family estate from the father is unknown.
on november 14,1483 on the old calendar,however,muneharu participated in inuoumono(dog-hunting event)with sadamoto mori,and also in inuoumono conducted at umaba(a horse-riding ground)of masamoto hosokawa on march 1,1485 on the old calendar.
therefore,muneharu might have taken over as head of the family already around that time,but it is not known.
his skill of archery at inuoumono seemed to be good.
in addition,in the list of people took part in when yoshihisa ashikaga went to goshu for battle on september 12,1487 on the old calendar,the name "hachiro yabe" is written.
however,whether it was muneharu or not is also unclear.
there is an opinion that muneharu worked as a myodai(substitute)of his father,who lived in the inaba province,to establish relationship with the central government because muneharu worked mainly in kyoto.
in november of 1489 on the old calendar,his father sadatoshi,who took part in the second rebellion of jiro mori and was attacked by the toyotoki yamana's army,committed suicide with masazane yamana.
at that time,members of the family followed sadatoshi.
as for muneharu,however,there is no description for him,so it remains unclear.
after 90 years in the eiroku era,however,since the original family of the yabe clan was restored,muneharu might have survive.
however,it is not clear because there are few historical documents.
