yoshisada nitta
yoshisada nitta was a gokenin(immediate vassal of shogunate)during the last stage of the kamakura period as well as a busho(military commander)in the northern and southern courts period(japan).
his formal name was minamoto no yoshisada.
his actual family name was genji(minamoto clan).
he was the 8th head of the head family of nitta family in kozuke province(joshu)which originated from chinjufu-shogun(commander-in-chief the defense of north)yoshishige nitta,a son of minamoto no yoshikuni,the third son of the head of kawachi genji of seiwa genji chinjufu shogun minamoto no yoshiie.
his father was tomouji nitta and his mother is unknown(there are various opinions as to who they were).
his court rank was shoshiinoge(senior fourth rank,lower grade),sakonoe no chujo(middle captain of the left division of the inner palace guards).
he was conferred shoichii(senior first rank)on august 7,1882.
biography
the nitta clan(kozuke genji)originated from minamoto no yoshishige,the eldest son of minamoto no yoshikuni,the fourth son of the third head of kawachi genji minamoto no yoshiie,who developed nitta-no-sho(the area near ota city,gunma prefecture).
in yoshisada's era,however,the head family of the nitta family owned only a few districts out of 60 in nitta-no-sho,and yoshisada himself was a low-profile figure who had neither a court rank nor an official post.
yoshisada's name was mistakenly written as 'sadayoshi' in baikenan(proposal to sell tickets)on october 1318,and this fact indicates the low status of the head family of the nitta family in the bakufu.
based on the historical material which suggests that the real mother of yoshisada's son,yoshiaki,came from the ando clan,some people assert that she was a daughter of the influential michiubito(private vassal of the tokuso family(the direct line of regency hojo family))seishu ando.
if the above is true,the head family of the nitta clan,an impoverished gokenin,married a daughter of the ando clan,a miuchibito of the tokuso family(another view is that she was a daughter of kozuke province's kanrarei(jito(manager and lord of manor)of kanra district)shigeyasu ando(saemon no shoi(jr.lieutenant of the left division of the outer palace guards)),a family member of seishu).
it seems that the influence of the tokuso family's autocracy reached kozuke province after its shugo(military governor)changed from the adachi clan to the tokuso family after the shimotsuki incident.
the above fact represents the desperate efforts by his father asauji and yoshisada to restore the depressed head family of the nitta family by approaching the powerful family.
in addition,the influence of the head family of the nitta clan on other families also declined together with its decline in power.
when a dispute over irrigation occurred in 1322 between masatsune iwamatsu of iwamatsu clan and muneuji odate who was close to the head family,the dispute was left to the decision of the kamakura bakufu.
it is considered that the dispute was not settled by yoshisada's decision alone.
raising an army and the capture of kamakura
in the genko incident that started in 1331,he followed the kamakura bakufu as obanyaku(a job to guard kamakura)and participated in the battle of chihaya-jo castle,in which he fought masashige kusunoki who raised an army in kawachi province.
yoshisada,however,returned to nitta-no-sho without prior consent under the excuse that he was ill.
citing his above behavior as a reason,the bakufu imposed excessive military expenses on nitta-no-sho and exacted.
it is considered that the above might have triggered yoshisada's decision to rebel against the bakufu and raise an army.
the "taiheiki" and "baishoron" describe yoshisada,who was then residing at nitta-no-sho on the pretext of being ill,as having made up his mind to raise an army after he captured chozeishi(person in charge of tax collection)chikatsura kanazawa(kanazawa line)(bakufu hikitsuke bugyo(the chief of shogunate office of high court),a member of tokuso family of the hojo clan,another view is the ki clan),and hikoshiro kuronuma(miuchibito)who came to nitta-no-sho in order to collect military expenses,and imprisoning chikatsura and killing hikoshiro.
it is said that these two people ordered the nitta clan to pay six thousands kan(obsolete unit of currency)within five days,and that yoshisada was offended by their order.
some people argue that he secretly received imperial prince morinaga's order to overthrow the hojo clan while he was on the battle field during the genko incident.
in response to a call by the emperor godaigo,he raised an army to subjugate the kamakura bakufu on june 28(old calendar)1333 by gathering family members at ikushina-jinja shrine.
it has been passed down that there were initially only 150 soldiers.
also,it has been passed down that while he initially intended to advance toward echigo province where many family members resided,he later made up his mind to attack kamakura according to the exhortations by his younger brother yoshisuke wakiya.
after having absorbed family members in echigo,nitta forces advanced on tosando towards the west and occupied the provincial office of kozuke province.
thereafter,they joined the forces of senjuo(yoshiakira ashikaga),the eldest son of takauji ashikaga,when they crossed the tone river.
it is said that thanks to the alliance with the eldest son of takauji ashikaga,the most influential tozama gokenin(nonhereditary gokenin)who had a relation by marriage with the hojo clan,the number of soldiers of nitta forces reached the tens of thousands due to gokenin of neighboring area that also joined forces.
nitta forces further advanced on kamakura kaido,crossing the iruma river(saitama prefecture)and clashed with the forces of bakufu commanded by sadakuni sakurada and sadamasa kanazawa at kotesashigahara(kotesashi-cho,tokorozawa city,saitama prefecture)(battle at kotesashigahara).
although the number of soldiers of bakufu forces out numbered the nitta forces,the situation gradually turned in favor of the nitta forces with the support of gokenin in musashi province,such as the kawagoe clan,who were also increasingly dissatisfied with bakufu.
eventually,the bakufu forces retreated to budaigawara(fuchu city,tokyo(tokyo)).
bakufu forces again pitched a camp at budaigawara and started a decisive battle with nitta forces(budaigawara war(kamakura period)).
nitta forces suffered a crushing defeat,but came back to defeat the bakufu forces on the following day with the support of troops from yoshikatsu otawa of the miura clan.
it is also considered that some auxiliary troops from the bakufu betrayed their allegiance,due to a report that states that takauji ashikaga destroyed rokuhara tandai(kamakura bakufu's administrative and judicial agency at rokuhara,kyoto).
nitta forces crossed the tamagawa river on the following day,fighting a decisive battle with yasuie hojo of the bakufu forces at kasumi no seki(sekido,tama city,tokyo)which culminated in a great victory(sekido war).
after having advanced to fujisawa(fujisawa city,kanagawa prefecture),yoshisada split his troops into three and attacked kamakura from the sides of kewaizaka kiridoshi,gokurakujizaka kiridoshi and kobukurozaka kiridoshi.
based on his decision that breaking through gokurakujizaka kiridoshi was impossible,yoshisada broke through inamuragasaki to take advantage of the low tide,attacking bakufu forces in the rear and then rushed into kamakura.
he forced the family members of takatoki hojo to commit suicide at tosho-ji temple and destroyed the kamakura bakufu only fifteen days after he raised an army.
after the fall of kamakura,however,yoshisada clashed with the brothers of kazuuji hosokawa and akiuji hosokawa who were dispatched by takauji ashikaga to support senjuo,but then lost his place and went to kyoto.
yoshisada under the kenmu government
under the kenmu government,yoshisada was conferred jushiinojo(junior fourth rank,upper grade)on september 22,1333 thanks to his distinguished military service in attacking kamakura.
he was appointed as samanosuke(vice-minister of the left division of the bureau of horses).
he was concurrently appointed as kozuke no suke(assistant governor of kozuke province)and echigo no kami(provincial governor of echigo province)etc.
in november of the same year,he was concurrently appointed as harima no suke(assistant governor of harima province)
in the same year,he was appointed as the tonin(head)of mushadokoro(a place where samurai guards of the imperial palace were stationed).
he was also appointed as the shugo of kozuke and echigo provinces.
in the following year,he was concurrently appointed as harima no kami(provincial governor of harima province)and the shugo of harima province.
thereafter,he was successively appointed as saemon no suke(assistant captain of the left division of outer palace guards)and sahyoe no kami(captain of the left division of middle palace guards)etc.
during the chusendai war that occurred in 1335,in which the remnants of hojo clan in shinano province occupied kamakura,exalting takatoki's son tokiyuki hojo as their head,takauji ashikaga went to kamakura in order to suppress them without obtaining the emperor godaigo's approval.
takauji set up his headquarters in kamakura and started to realize the establishment of a military government.
takauji proposed that godaigo search and destroy yoshisada on the grounds that he was a wily vassal surrounding the emperor.
on the contrary,however,godaigo ordered yoshisada to search and destroy takauji,and yoshisada passed through tokaido to kamakura following imperial prince takayoshi.
along with his brother yoshisuke wakiya,yoshisada defeated the troops of naoyoshi ashikaga and moroyasu ko in the battle of yahagigawa(okazaki city,aichi prefecture)as well as in the battle of tegoshigawara(suruga ward,shizuoka city,shizuoka prefecture).
however,he was defeated by takauji,who came from kamakura to fight,in the battle of hakone and takenoshita(oyama town,sunto county,shizuoka prefecture),and he fled to kyoto via owari province.
in february 1336,the following year,he fought with takauji in the suburbs of kyoto,and he succeeded in driving back ashikaga troops in alliance with akiie kitabatake,who came from oshu(mutsu province),and masashige kusunoki.
he defeated the ashikaga troops which intended to come back to kyoto at teshimagawara in settsu province(ikeda city,osaka prefecture).
in march of the same year,he was promoted to shoshinoge(senior fourth rank,lower grade)thanks to his distinguished military service in the above battle.
he was transferred to sakonoe no chujo(middle captain of the left division of inner palace guards).
he was concurrently appointed as harima no kami.
he further chased takauji who fled to kyushu,but his advance was checked by norimura akamatsu(enshin)who holed up in shirahata-jo castle in harima province,so he abandoned the chase.
takauji returned to kyoto by sea after conquering kyushu,but yoshisada wasted time after encountering trouble attacking akamatsu's troops that were besieged in shirahata-jo castle.
in the minatogawa battle(kobe city,hyogo prefecture),in which he allied with masashige kusunoki,yoshisada pitched camp at cape wada but failed to hinder the landing of ashikaga marine forces.
thereafter,he tried to make a comeback at nishinomiya(nishinomiya city,hyogo prefecture),but eventually fled to kyoto.
escape to hokuriku and death
the location where yoshisada nitta's is alleged to have died
court side troops that escaped to mt.hiei after the battle of minatogawa advanced to kamotadasu-gawara in order to recapture kyoto which was being occupied by ashikaga forces,but were eventually blocked.
the emperor godaigo proceeded to carry out peace negotiations with the ashikaga side and intended to go down from mt.hiei,abandoning yoshisada.
however,sadamitsu horiguchi,a member of yoshisada's family,stopped godaigo immediately before his departure saying 'if you want to go to kyoto forgetting our family's longstanding loyalty,you should do so after you cut off the heads of over fifty persons of our family including yoshisada.'
as there was the possibility that yoshisada had become the emperor's enemy,the emperor godaigo abdicated the throne in favor of imperial prince tsuneyoshi,delegating his authority to imperial princetsuneyoshi and imperial prince takayoshi,turning their forces into the imperial army,and went down from mt.hiei.
yoshisada advanced on hokurikudo along with both imperial princes,his son yoshiaki and his brother yoshisuke wakiya.
though some soldiers were frozen to death in a heavy snowstorm and his troops were forced to circumvent due to the persistent attack by the ashikaga side,he finally entered kanegasaki-jo castle in echizen province(tsuruga city,fukui prefecture).
however,he was soon besieged by the troops of moroyasu ko and takatsune shiba.
yoshisada and yoshisuke fled to somayama-jo castle,trying to break through the besieged enemy forces at kanegasaki-jo castle in cooperation with tamotsu uryu,the lord of uryu-jo castle,but failed.
after kanegasaki-jo castle fell on april 15,1337,imperial prince takayoshi and yoshiaki committed suicide and imperial prince tsuneyoshi was sent to kyoto.
yoshisada recovered power in the summer of that year,defeating takatsune shiba in the battle of sabae,occupying the government office of echizen and recapturing kanegasaki-jo castle.
in august 1338,he departed for fujishima-jo castle,in which the monk soldiers of hiraizumi-dera temple,that sided with the side of the samurai,were contained themselves,in order to encourage his troops.
on the way,however,he encountered enemy troops coming from kuromaru-jo castle at tomyojinawate(nittazuka,fukui city,fukui prefecture),fujishima,echizen province and was killed in battle.
it is described in "taiheiki" that his horse couldn't jump over a ditch and fell down because it was injured by an arrow,that a stray arrow hit the middle of his forehead while he was held under the horse,and that he cut off his own head.
while it is a historical fact that yoshisada died here,it seems unlikely that he died in the manner mentioned above.
it is considered that the description mentioned above was a fiction created by the author of "taiheiki" who was inspired by the description of xian yu's death in "shiki" (the chinese historical records)as well as that of minamoto no yoshinaka's death in "taiheiki" (the description of yoshinaka's death is also likely to be a fiction created by the author of "heike monogatari").
his head was sent to kyoto,and a celebrated sword onikiri,a family treasure of seiwa-genji which yoshisada obtained when kamakura bakufu was collapsed,also fell into the hands of the ashikaga clan.
he was conferred senior second rank,though the date is unknown.
he was posthumously appointed as dainagon(chief councilor of state).
in 1656,the edo period,a farmer kahei found a kabuto(helmet)while he was cultivating the old battle field and offered it to the lord of fukui domain mitsumichi matsudaira.
it was a kabuto with incrustations,and was considered to be one that was used by relatively high-ranking busho(japanese military commander).
based on a decision by banuemon ihara,gunposhihan(strategy instructor)of fukui domain,it was preserved by the echizen matsudaira family as a kabuto used by yoshisada nitta.
when fujishima-jinja shrine,a shrine which enshrines yoshisada,was founded after the meiji restoration,it was donated by echizen matsudaira family(the family of marquis matsudaira)as a shrine treasure.
the kabuto was designated as a national important cultural property.
buddhist name:源光院殿義貞覺阿彌陀佛尊位
cemetery:chorin-zan shonen-ji temple in sakai city,fukui prefecture
personal profile
appraisal
among the persons in the same era,it is said that he was at odds with chikafusa kitabatake,a leading figure of the southern court(japan).
"jinno shotoki" written by chikafusa treated him as being a lower-ranking person than takauji ashikaga,saying 'a person called minamoto no yoshisada resides in kozuke province.he is a family member of takauji.'
also,a description can be seen in "masukagami" saying that 'koshiro yoshisada nitta,a family member of takauji,launched a war in musashi province with takauji's four-year-old son being the great general.'
in the above description,his common name was kotaro and kozuke province where he raised his army was mistakenly written as koshiro and musashi province respectively,and senjuo ashikaga was mentioned as the general responsible for the attack of kamakura.
regarding the background of the above description,some people assert that as the founder of the nitta clan yoshishige nitta showed minamoto no yoritomo an uncooperative attitude in establishing the kamakura bakufu,the status of the head of the families originating from minamoto no yoshikuni shifted,after the establishment of bakufu,to yoshikane ashikaga,a son of yoshishige's younger brother minamoto no yoshiyasu,and the practice of the ashikaga clan ruling the samurai of genji including the nitta family,became fixed.
in fact,some people of the nitta clan thought the ashikaga clan was the head of the samurai families.
the yamana clan,which was removed from the head family,followed senjuo ashikaga(yoshiakira)when yoshisada raised an army and sided with the ashikaga side thereafter.
in the "taiheiki",a war chronicle written in the muromachi period,masashige kusunoki was described as a clever general while yoshisada,for whom the author showed little sympathy,was described as being an indecisive person who was defeated by takauji ashikaga while competing for the position as head of the samurai.
for example,there is a description,which emphasized yoshimasa's lax character,stating that after yoshisada defeated takauji at teshimagawara in settsu and drove him to kyushu,that he didn't chase him further since he was unwilling to part from koto no naishi,and that he eventually allowed takauji to recover power,defeating the imperial army at minatogawa and then returned to kyoto.
on the other hand,there is a description in "baishoron" as shown below.
"when the soldiers of the nitta forces,which were defeated in the battle of hakone,tried to cut the bridge over the tenryu river,yoshisada said 'even if we cut the bridge,it would be easy to reconstruct it.we would be shamed if it were said that the nitta forces cut the bridge because they were in a rush to escape' and ordered soldiers to withdraw asking local people to take care of the bridge.
when the soldiers of the ashikaga forces who pursued them heard his remarks,they hailed him by saying 'everyone who was born into samurai families should be like yoshisada.'
during the period from the meiji restoration to the end of world war ⅱ,he was favorably appraised by the kokoku shikan(emperor-centered historiography which is based on state shinto)as a loyal subject next to masashige kusunoki who followed the emperor godaigo in contrast with 'gyakuzoku' (rebel)takauji ashikaga,and his biography became a tale for kodan(story-telling)etc.
after the war,a view appeared that he was a common military commander in eastern japan who was entrusted with an important duty beyond his capability.
some people further argue that he was mediocre as a strategist and a foolish general.
however,some people questioned the appraisal solely based on the descriptions of "taiheiki",and appreciate his natural gifts as a military commander on the grounds that the difference in popularity compared with takauji was caused by a gap in familal status,that he occupied kamakura for only a short time,and that he defeated takauji,though temporarily,who possessed greater power.
in jomo karuta card,a local karuta card in gunma prefecture,he is described as 'yoshisada nitta,a famous person in history.'
koto no naishi
in the war chronicle "taiheiki",there is an episode where yoshisada,who was ordered to chase takauji who fled to kyushu,missed an opportunity because he was unwilling to part from koto no naishi,a court lady granted by the emperor godaigo.
koto no naishi was a post of naishi no tsukasa(female palace attendants),and referred to a daughter of tsunetada ichijo who served the emperor godaigo.
judging from the era,her existence is questionable and she is considered to be a fictional character.
according to taiheiki,she became yoshisada's wife with the emperor's permission,and yoshisada missed an opportunity to chase takauji because he was unwilling to part from naishi.
due to the above,under kokoku shikan,he was acclaimed on one hand as a military commander who sacrificed himself to the southern court but was criticized on the other hand as the very person who drove loyal subject masashige kusunoki to death.
several legends concerning naishi have been handed down such one saying she threw herself into lake biwa when she found out about yoshisada's death and one saying that she performed religious rites for the repose of yoshisada's soul in kyoto or katada(otsu city,shiga prefecture).
also,several cemeteries are believed to be hers.
sword of inamuragasaki
when yoshisada attacked kamakura,sadanao osaragi strictly guarded gokuraku-ji temple kiridoshi and a fleet from the hojo side guarded the seashore.
an episode is seen in "taiheiki" where yoshisada threw a gold-forged sword into the sea at inamuragasaki and prayed to the dragon god,the tide went out,the tideland appeared,allowing him to bulldoze through.
this episode came to be known as monbusho shoka(songs of ministry of education).
according to "taiheiki",the date of the above episode was july 11,1333.
kiyohiko ogawa(an astronomer)expressed his view in 1915 that the above date was not a day of low tide according to his calculation,and that yoshisada passed over inamuragasaki through seawater when the bakufu forces had their guard down,based on their thinking that nitta forces would be unable to pass over inamuragasaki.
on the other hand,susumu ogawa(a historian)expressed his view in 1933 that judging from ogawa's calculation record as well as the records of ancient documents,nitta forces should have started to pass over inamuragasaki and attacked kamakura in the afternoon of july 8,a low tide day,and that the author of "taiheiki" incorrectly recorded the date.
bronze statue,articles left by the deceased,monument
a bronze of his statue is located in front of the tomo historical museum in serata-cho,ota city,gunma prefecture.
the statue of a horse-riding yoshisada is at the rotary in front of the budaigawara station(the keio line of keio electric railway,the nanbu line of east japan railway company)located in fuchu city tokyo(tokyo).
the above mentioned kabuto is preserved as an article that belonged to him.
in the place where the kabuto was found,a monument was erected that states 'the place at which yoshisada nitta died' by the lord of domain mitsumichi matsudaira,and this place was designated as a national historic site in 1924 under the name of 'tomyoji nitta yoshisada senbotsudennsetsuchi.'
a place known as 'nittazuka' also exists.
sorimachi-yakushi(shingon sect,rurisan,myoko-in,shomyo-ji temple),located at 896,nittasorimachi-cho,ota city,gunma prefecture,is believed to be the site of yoshisada nitta's residence where he resided when he raised an army,and is also called 'the site of sorimachi-yakata.'
the site was designated as a national historic site in 2000,and as a part of 'the remains of nitta no sho.'
descendants
during the muromachi period,the nitta clan was the target of subjugation as the 'emperor's enemy' or 'rebel' (from the standpoint of northern court(japan)).
it is said that the direct line of yoshisada was broken when yoshimune's son sadakata nitta(yoshikuni)and his eldest son sadakuni nitta were executed in kamakura in the oei era.
however,one of sadakata's sons sadamsa horie escaped to inage,musashi province claiming that he came from the horie clan.
sadamasa's descendants served the gohojo clan.
another son,sadanaga nakamura,escaped to mutsu claiming he came from the nakamura clan(sendai domain)and served the date clan.
some branch families still exist,including the fijisawa clan.
it is said that munechika nitta(chikasue),an illegitimate son of yoshimune,survived and lived in obscurity.
meanwhile,mitsuzumi iwamatsu(according to "keizu sanyo",was born to yoshimune and a younger sister of mitsukuni iwamatsu,but there are various views concerning his birth)claimed that he was a son of yoshimune and was adopted by the iwamatsu clan.
the reibu family of iwamatsu clan,a descendant of mitsuzumi,won in a strife against the keicho family,another line of the iwamatsu clan,and was based at nittakanayama-jo castle,located in the former territory of the nitta clan.
during the sengoku period(japan),however,the iwamatsu clan declined due to a revolt by its senior vassal yokose clan.
when ieyasu tokugawa,who claimed to be a descendant of the serata/tokugawa clan of the nitta clan,became the ruler of kanto region,he hired the head of the iwamatsu clan,morizumi iwamatsu,and requested him to submit his family tree of the nitta clan.
morizumi,however,refused the request and as a result,he was entitled to a stipend of only twenty koku(3.600 liter)even though he became a direct vassal of ieyasu.
the iwamatsu clan was given the status of kotaiyoriai(a family status of samurai warriors during the edo period)as the head family of the nitta family when morizumi's grandson hidezu iwamatsu was the head of the family.
however,the clan was not allowed to use nitta as its family name,and its stipend was increased by only 100 to 120 koku,the lowest among kotaiyoriai families.
during the edo period,the iwamatsu clan barely managed to continue to exist as a quasi-kotaiyoriai family(a family next to four kotaiyoriai families).
the yokose clan(yura clan),a former regent of the iwamatsu clan which revolted against the master family in the sengoku period,also claimed to be the descendant of masayoshi/yoshisada/yoshimune nitta,and it reverted to its family name of nitta after the meiji restoration.
after the meiji restoration,both the iwamatsu clan and the yura clan were acknowledged by the meiji government as being the descendants of yoshisada and reverted to the family name of nitta.
the iwamatsu clan was eventually acknowledged as being the main line of the nitta clan after these disputes,and it was conferred a baron as the peerage.
the head family of the chiba clan inherited the pedigree of yoshisada when a daughter of yoshisada became the lawful wife of ujitane chiba and gave birth to mitsutane chiba.
