katsutoshi kinoshita
katsutoshi kinoshita(1569-july 24,1649)was a busho(japanese military commander)during the azuchi-momoyama period.
a feudal lord during the early years of the edo period
the second lord of the ashimori domain.
waka
he was the son of iesada kinoshita,who was the older brother of kodaiin.
katsutoshi's younger brothers were toshifusa kinoshita,nobutoshi kinoshita,and hideaki kobayakawa.
his go(byname)was shoshoshi.
he married ume(hosenin),a daughter of yoshinari mori.
one of his daughters married nobuyoshi takeda,the fifth son of ieyasu tokugawa,and another married ieharu yamazaki.
another daughter married kiminari ano.
he was a christian and took the name "peter."
career
katsutoshi was born to iesada kinoshita in 1569.
he served hideyoshi toyotomi,and was considered important as one of few kin.
he was given tatsuno-jo castle in harima province,joined in the conquest of odawara,and dispatched troops to korea.
later he was awarded obama-jo castle in wakasa province and a stipend of 80,000 koku of rice(1 koku＝150 kg or 330 lbs.)
in the battle of sekigahara,he joined the east forces,and was put in charge of guarding fushimi-jo castle with mototada torii.
however,he left the castle before the west forces launched their attack,for which he was demoted.
through the efforts of his aunt,kita no mandokoro(legal wife of regent or chief adviser to the emperor),his father's property was protected(25,000 koku stipend of ashimori in bicchu province);however,his fight with his younger brother,toshifusa,for inheritance of the property resulted in another demotion.
thereafter,he retired to higashiyama,kyoto,maintaining friendship with intellectuals such as razan hayashi and teitoku matsunaga.
he was an outstanding waka poet,leaving behind many kashu(collections of poetry),including "kyohakushu" and "kyushu minchinoki."
divergent theory
in contrast to the conventional theory,some argue that the reason for the loss of his ashimori territory was his aunt's,kita no mandokoro's(kodaiin)support of the west forces in the battle of sekigahara.
meanwhile,hidetada was sent to hideyoshi as a hostage from ieyasu,and maintained favorable relations with kita no mandokoro.
another theory argues that katsutoshi and toshifusa were sons of the family head motoaki takeda of the wakasa-takeda clan.
