agatainukai no otomo
agata(no)inukai no otomo(year of birth unknown-march 13,701)lived in the asuka period in japan.
his clan name(県犬養)was also written inukai(犬養)and his given name(大伴)was otomo(大侶).
in old japanese syllabary characters,his name was pronounced as "agatainukahi no ohotomo" or "inukahi no ohotomo".
his hereditary title was muraji(second highest title under yamato dynasty),later granted sukune(third highest of the eight hereditary titles).
he followed the prince oama(emperor tenmu)in the jinshin war in 672.
later,he served the emperor tenmu.
he was awarded shokosan(the sixth grade of shoko rank for vassals of the forty-eight grades of cap rank).
his achievement in the jinshin war.
agatainukai no otomo was prince oama's toneri(palace servant)when the jinshin war started.
he was one of about two dozen of prince oama's followers when the prince left yoshino for togoku to take up army.
according to"nihonshoki" (chronicles of japan),on july 24,prince oama left on foot as he had no horse.
the prince found a horse owned by agatainukai no otomo by chance and acquired it.
the princess uno no sarara(later empress jito)got into a mikoshi(portable carriage).
the prince on the horse caught up with the princess at the tsufuri-gawa river and got into the carriage.
it is believed that tsufuri-gawa river is the tsuburo-gawa river which is a tributary of kino-kawa river.
among modern historians,a theory that the prince oama carefully planned raising an army is accepted.
although "nihonshoki" (chronicles of japan)reported that the prince oama had no choice but to take up arms,the theory points out that this might be a misrepreresentation to justify the prince's act.
a report in "nihonshoki" (chronicles of japan)that the prince got the horse by chance may also have been simple dramatization.
in addition,there is a belief that "nihonshoki" (chronicles of japan)changed the description of a detour,getting to the tsuburo-gawa river from yoshino since horses could not get over a pass at that time.
there is no description in "nihonshoki" (chronicles of japan)about agatainukai no otomo's role in the later domestic warfare.
meritorious retainers' later life
according to "nihonshoki" (chronicles of japan),on december 28,the number of cap ranks were increased to grant a shosen(cap rank)or upper rank to those who were selected for their deeds of valor.
therefore,agatainukai no otomo was awarded the same or upper rank.
july 21(august 29 in new calendar),701 of "shoku nihongi" (chronicle of japan continued)reported that agatainukai no otomo was allotted 100 households for his achievement in the jinshin war.
on august 5,680,the emperor tenmu visited the sick agatainukai no otomo at his home.
on january 12,685,50 muraji clans including agatainukai were awarded the title of sukune(third highest of the eight hereditary titles).
on october 21,685,the emperor tenmu enjoyed gambling with the imperial family and vassals at oyasumi-dono.
during the gambling,the emperor sat in oyasumi-dono with the imperial family and vassals in front of him.
agatainukai no sukune otomo was one of ten vassals who were granted the emperor's robe and formal divided skirt for men.
on september 12,686,the emperor tenmu passed away and the imperial family and his vassals started shinobigoto(a speech given to the spirit of the departed about his/her merit)to the emperor on september 30.
at that ceremony,agatainukai no sukune otomo,who had achieved the rank of jikidaisan(the thirteenth grade of jikidai rank for vassals of the forty-eight grades of cap rank),spoke about overall things of the imperial court in remembrance of the emperor.
this proved that he was involved in the imperial court.
on january 29,701,agatainukai no sukune otomo died.
at the time,his rank was jikikoichi(the tenth grade of jikiko rank for vassals of the forty-eight grades of cap rank).
emperor monmu sent yakio(夜気王)and other vassals to impose an imperial edict that granted shokosan(the sixth grade of shoko rank for vassals of the forty-eight grades of cap rank)for his achievements in the jinshin war.
