kuninobu takeda
kuninobu takeda
wakasa no kuni shugo(governor of wakasa province).
a busho(japanese military commander)in the middle of the muromachi period
joshu(the lord)of tottori-jo castle in inaba province.
a busho in the early sengoku period(the period of warring states)(japan)
kuninobu takeda(the muromachi period)
kuninobu takeda(1442-july 17,1490)was a daimyo of the muromachi period.
he was the third family head of the wakasa-takeda clan(the takeda clan of wakasa province).
he was born as the third son of nobushige takeda(the muromachi period)belonging to the aki-takeda clan(the takeda clan of aki province),and was a younger brother of nobuhide takeda and nobukata takeda.
he was the father of the fourth and fifth family heads,nobuchika takeda and motonobu takeda,respectively.
hikotaro.
jibushoyu(junior assistant minister of the ministry of civil administration).
daizen no daibu(master of the palace table).
sokun(homyo,posthumous buddhist name).
following the death of his older brother nobukata in 1471,kuninobu took over as head of the takeda clan.
instead of nobukata's infant legitimate son,kuninobu took over as head of the family(a legend says that nobukata's legitimate son would be nobuhiro takeda).
in the onin war,kuninobu like his older brother nobukata,joined the east squad led by katsumoto hosokawa and fought bravely with the west squad including shigeyori toki.
however,kuninobu also faced a hard time when his younger brother mototsuna takeda turned against him.
in april,1474,kuninobu,serving as a mediator,reconciled masatoyo yamana with masamoto hosokawa.
this reconciliation between them,however,was made based on some conditions,one of which was to return the fief of tango province that the takeda clan had deprived the isshiki clan of during the onin war.
although the discontented hikan(dependent retainer)of the takeda clan had been in their tango camp and refused the return of the fief,kuninobu,who had joined the reconciliation,was unable to dispatch troop reinforcements to tango.
therefore,the takeda's army in tango was obliged to fight with the isshiki clan on their own,and the chief commander masatada(真正)henmi committed suicide in october,which resulted in the defeat and destruction of the takeda's army.
then kuninobu in despair entered the priesthood and was given the priest name sokun.
thereafter,he followed yoshihisa ashikaga,who embarked on a punitive expedition against the rokkaku clan(rokkaku seibatsu[a military campaign against the rokkaku clan]).
however,he died of illness in obama province on july 17,1490.
as his legitimate son nobuchika had already passed away in 1484,the other son motonobu succeeded him.
his family temple is gyokkain.
kuninobu was a highly-educated cultural figure who often held parties to appreciate waka(japanese verse)and renga(japanese linked verse).
kuninobu takeda(the sengoku period)
kuninobu takeda(year of birth unknown-1545)was a retainer of the yamana clan,the governor of inaba province,and his family was a branch of the wakasa-takeda clan.
his official title was yamashiro no kami(the governor of yamashiro province).
achievements
kuninobu takeda served nobumichi yamana.
in 1545,he refurbished kyushozan-jo castle(later tottori-jo castle),but this substantial fortress triggered the master's fear of treachery,thus resulting in the premeditated murder of kuninobu.
later,kuninobu's son takanobu takeda was to rebel against the yamana clan and temporarily seize inaba province(refer to the article of inaba-takeda clan in the page of the takeda clan).
association with 'takeda buzen no kami tsunenobu' (tsunenobu takeda,the governor of buzen province)
a record shows the name 'takeda buzen no kami tsunenobu' as a senior vassal of the inaba-yamana clan,who had fought against the amago clan at the battle of hashizugawa in an attempt to support munekatsu nanjo of hoki province in october,1546,but it is unknown whether that person was identical with kuninobu takeda(other theory sees they were the same person).
according to masahiro takahashi,a researcher of medieval japanese history living in tottori city,takeda buzen no kami was at tottori-jo castle when he was involved in the murder of nobumichi yamana plotted by suketoyo yamana of tajima province("sanin sengokushi no shomondai:jo" [issues in the sengoku history of sanin region:first volume],written by masahiro takahashi in 1993).
