namiemon sakaigawa
namiemon sakaigawa(may 28,1841-september 16,1887)was a sumo wrestler from the keio era to the maiji period.
he was the 14th yokozuna(sumo grand champion).
he was only 169 centimeters in height and the fourth shortest yokozuna in the recorded sumo history.
he weighed 128 kilograms.
biography
he was from katsushika county,shimousa province(current ichikawa city,chiba prefecture).
his real name was masakichi udagawa;he changed it to masakichi ichikawa,then to namiemon ichikawa.
when he was thirteen years old,he worked at a liquor wholesaler as apprenticeship;the master recognized his talent since he was easily carrying shito-daru(barrel of seventy-two liters),and on the introduction of the master,he entered sakaigawa stable.
his first bout was at the november tournament of 1857.
he got into makuuchi(top)rank at the april tournament of 1867.
he was promoted to ozeki(wrestler at the second highest rank)after the november tournament of 1869.
he changed his professional sumo wrestler name from masuizan to sakaigawa and changed the clan who retained him from the himeji clan to the owari clan.
in february 1876,the gojo family gave him a yokozuna license and in february 1877,the yoshida-tsukasa family gave him the license,too.
he retired after the january tournament of 1881.
he inherited the name of sakaigawa as toshiyori(retired wrestler).
however,his life after that was short and he died at the early age of 45.
personal profile
he was small but had a potbelly and was very strong.
he put his opponent on his potbelly and did a yaguranage(inner thigh throw),which was his specialty.
during the match,he always let his opponents fully demonstrate their abilities before he showed his real power to beat them,therefore,although his winning average was high,many draws were recorded as well,and he still hold the record for highest average of draws among all the yokozuna in history.
however,because of such attitudes,he was liked by his opponents,besides since he taught and took care of fellow wrestlers well,he was very popular.
he was living in an area called honjo hitotsume,therefore,he was called 'daimyo(lord)ozeki of hitotsume.'
he was called 'kajinosuke tanikaze of meiji' and later became sumaino-osa(sumo director).
against yokozuna tanigoro kimenzan,his record was 2 wins,1 defeat and 3 draws;however he did not do well against totaro umegatani(the first)with the result of 5 defeats,1 draw and 2 holds.
he did not have a happy marriage.
he married into his master's family and his wife wasted their money and repeatedly had affairs;so one of his pupils who could not stand the situation,punched the man who was having an affair with her,threw him into a river and eventually killed him.
after retiring,he was enjoying chanoyu(tea ceremonies)and haikai(writing seventeen-syllable verses),however he died at an early age which has been said that because he had been wasted by the mental stress from the difference of opinions in sumo kaisho(meeting place)and his family problems.
record at makuuchi
28 tournaments,118 wins,23 defeats,71 draws,5 holds and 63 absences;winning average 83.7%
he got 5 titles which are equivalent to the championship level today.
