dohachi takahashi
dohachi takahashi is one of potteries of kyo yaki(kyoto style ceramic art,or kiyomizu-ware),and is a family name for ceramic artists.
they have been engaged in the production of ceramic ware since the late edo period,creating masterpieces of especially tea utensils and tea sets for green tea.
the current head is the eighth generation.
the successive heads
the first dohachi(1740-1804)
born in isekameyama domain,ise province.
the azana(adult male nickname) 'syuhei,' name 'mitsushige.'
he also called himself 'shofutei kuchu.'
since he was the second son in the family,he abandoned the samurai class and went to kyoto to become a craftsman of ceramic wares.
later,he became independent and opened a pottery kiln in awataguchi.
as his floruit was also a prosperous period for green tea,he created a large number of masterpiece tea sets for green tea.
he associated with literati such as ike no taiga,akinari ueda,and baisao.
he enjoyed nanga(a school of painting originating in china)as a hobby.
the first shuhei ogata(1788 or 1800-1829 or 1830)
the third son of the first dohachi,a young brother of dohachi ninnami.
the childhood name 'kumazo,' name 'kokichi.'
after he was trained by eisen okuda and his brother,dohachi ninnami,he became independent.
his surname 'oagata' was named after kanzan ogata.
seika(ceramics with blue patterns on white backgrounds),iroe(painting or colored artwork)and celadons were his specialties,and he left many masterpieces of those in tea sets for green tea(especially kyusu-small teapots,teakettles and tea bowls).
the second dohachi(1782-1855)
the second son of the first dohachi.
he is noted for the name 'dohachi ninnami.'
the third dohachi(1811-1879)
the eldest son of the second dohashi.
the childhood name 'dosan,' name 'michifusa.'
he called himself 'kachutei' and 'doo.'
he was invited to the takamatsu domain and opened a pottery 'sanuki kiln' in 1850.
he was invited from the saga domain and gave technical guidance for arita ware in 1869.
he was assigned to hokkyo(the third highest rank for buddhist priests)by ninnajinomiya.
he successfully created seika(ceramics with blue patterns on white backgrounds)and white porcelain also.
he retired with his grandfather's pottery,momoyamayo,in his later years.
his technical specialties were celadons,unkaku moyo(pattern with clouds and cranes),mishimade(tea bowls with corded designs),and hakeme(ceramics with white brush marks),and he created a great number of masterpieces of those in tea sets for green tea.
the fourth dohachi(1845-1897)
the son of the third dohachi.
the name 'mitsuyori,' go(pseudonym) 'kachutei.'
succeeded to the name in 1874.
worked as a goyonin(officer handling domestic economy)at an industrial site in kyoto prefecture.
his specialties were seika ware,sculpture,and white porcelain.
the fifth dohachi(1869-1914)
the real name 'yunosuke ogawa.'
born in koka county,shiga prefecture.
when the fourth dohachi passed away,his son was too young therefore he temporarily took over the name.
the sixth dohachi(1881-1941)
the second son of the fourth dohachi.
the real name 'hidemitsu,' go 'kachutei.'
using the same technique as the fifth and fourth dohachi,he created masterpieces of sometsuke(ceramics with blue patterns on white backgrounds)tea sets for green tea.
the seventh dohachi(november 21,1910-)
the real name 'koichi.'
the eighth dohachi(december 6,1938-),the current head
the eldest son of the seventh dohachi.
graduated from the department of art,kyoto municipal hiyoshigaoka high school,studied molding with potter's wheels in kyoto prefectural training school and glaze in industrial research institute of kyoto.
trained under his father,the seventh dohachi.
succeeded to the name in 1983.
