tadatoki shimazu
tadatoki shimazu(1202-may 8,1272)was a busho(japanese military commander)in the early and middle kamakura period.
he was the 2nd family head of the shimazu clan.
his father was the 1st family head,tadahisa shimazu.
his mother was a daughter of shigetada hatakeyama(however,there is a different theory).
his official court rank was shuri no suke(assistant officer of the office of palace repairs).
he was osumi no kuni no kami(governor of osumi province).
he was in the rank of saemon no jo(third-ranked officer of the left division of outer palace guards).
his children were tadatsugu shimazu,who became the founder of the yamada clan(a branch line of the shimazu family),and tadatsune shimazu,whose children became the founders of the machida clan and the ijuin clan,besides the legitimate son,hisatsune shimazu.
his original name was tadayoshi shimazu.
it was changed to tadatoki afterward.
in the jokyu war in 1221,he took part in the army of bakufu(japanese feudal government headed by a shogun),and distinguished himself in the war.
he also held the post of the shugoshiki(provincial constables)of wakasa province,where his family had been appointed to be a shugo(provincial constable).
in 1227,he succeeded to the family estate because of the death of his father,tadahisa.
however,he didn't stay in the province,but resided in kamakura,and was appointed to a dominant gokenin(an immediate vasal of the shogunate in the kamakura and muromachi through edo periods)or the post of kinjuban(an attendant to shogun)and became a leading figure in the shogunate government.
because of the distinguished service,he was awarded a post of jitoshiki(manager and lord of manor)in iga province,sanuki province,izumi province,echizen province and omi province,etc.
in 1265,he handed over the family estate to his legitimate son,hisatsune shimazu.
on april 10,1272,he died at the age of 71.
his hogo(a buddhist name)is道仏.
his cemetery is in honryu-ji temple in kagoshima city.
or it is in kanno-ji temple in noda-cho town(in izumi city,kagoshima prefecture).
