kanichiro yoshimura
kanichiro yoshimura(1840-january 27,1868)
he was from the morioka clan.
member of shinsengumi(shoshitoriatsukaiyaku and kansatsu(shinsengumi's organizational post for investigating movements of the opponents and keeping the shinsengumi members under control),grand master of swordsman).
hokushin-ittoryu(school of swordsmanship),shinto-ryu(school of swordsmanship)
was his real name gontaro kamura?
biography
he was born as the second son of a low-level samurai of the morioka domain.
he threw himself into learning and swordsmanship and,in the morioka domain,he entered a school for kashima-shinto-ryu school and distinguished himself.
in 1863,he was allowed to go to edo and entered genbukan,which was a school for hokushin-ittoryu.
at that time,the dojo(hall used for martial arts training)was a place to discuss affairs of state,and it seems that yoshimura gradually devoted himself to antiforeign imperialism..
in 1865,he left the morioka domain.
as yoshimura was poor and worried about his five family members and he joined shinsengumi(a group who guarded kyoto during the end of tokugawa shogunate)which was famous for its bravery.
he had talent in both literature and military arts and was appreciated for this and was selected for shoshi toriatsukaiyaku ken kansatsu(shinsengumi's organizational post for investigating movements of the opponents and keeping the shinsengumi members under control)and also was the grand master of gekken martial art.
in 1867,shinsengumi was appointed to the vassal of shogun and yoshimura was given the similar status of mimawarigumi(tokugawa sided faction that fought during the meiji revolution).
it is told that,on this occasion,he burst into tears of emotion that he could make sufficient remittances to his family back in his home town.
although he assumed the position of the grand master of gekken martial art,there are few records of his actual fighting with swords.
he visited nishi hongan-ji temple to negotiate with respect to move of tonsho(headquarters)and attended the kyoo(banquet)by the tosa domain for the purpose of apologizing for the sanjo-ohashi bridge notice board incident.
there is no record of yoshimura's involvement in fighting with swords when he worked as a guard for kyutaro miura in the tenmaya incident.
it seems that he rather acted as a disputant.
in january 1868,he took part in the battle of toba and fushimi.
after that,his whereabouts are untraceable whether he died in the battle or fled.
according to kan shimozawa,yoshimura found that shinsengumi left osaka,became homeless and requested the morioka hantei(mansion maintained by the morioka domain)for permission for him to return to the morioka domain.
however,he was condemned by jirouemon ono,who was sahaiyaku(general manager)and ordered him to commit suicide by harakiri,and he died in the morioka hantei by harakiri.
it is told that in the room,in which he carried out harakiri,ten nibukin coins and a piece of paper were left and,on the paper,a sentence to ask remittance to be sent to his family was written.
however,it is already ascertained that the person with the name of jirouemon ono was a fictitious person and,therefore,there is strong possibility that yoshimura's last was fiction by kan shimozawa.
reportedly,in the family register of deaths of his descendants,the yoshimura family,it is written that he died on february 15,1870.
kanichiro yoshimu in the media
many of the above-mentioned legends of yoshimura are fabrications by a novelist,kan shimozawa.
a historical novel, "mibu gishiden," by jiro asada was written based on the shimozawa's fabrication.
in 2002,it was broadcasted as a long-time(ten hours)tv drama(starring:ken watanabe)by tv tokyo corporation.
in the next year,2003,it was made into a movie(director:yojiro takita;starring:kiichi nakai).
