jokei raku
jokei raku(1561-1635)was a ceramic artist during the shokuho era(oda-toyotomi era)through the early edo period.
the second head of the kichizaemon raku family.
he was not the biological son of chojiro,the first head of the family,but the second son of sokei tanaka,who was an assistant to chojiro.
however,it is said that jokei was engaged in the creation of raku ware along with his father and older brother somai while chojiro was still alive.
however,it is a complete mystery about how jokei,who was neither the biological son of chojiro nor the oldest son of sokei,succeeded the head of the family because even the raku family does not have sufficient historical materials.
there is a theory that because sen no rikyu had conflicts with hideyoshi toyotomi and was forced a seppuku(suicide by disembowelment),and jokei who had the least connection with rikyu became the head of the family.
he started making pottery in earnest during and after keicho era(from 1596 to 1615).
he was influenced by shigenari furuta,and his works are characterized by the factitious forms.
also,he introduced 'hakuyu' (white glaze)(a type of koroyu[a glaze which jokei raku first used for koro,incense burner])to raku ware which only had black created by kangen uwagusuri(reduction glaze)and red created by sanka uwagusuri(oxidation glaze),and expanded the style of the raku wares.
he had a close relationship with koetsu honami and taught koetsu how to make rakujawan(raku teacup),and that is why a lot of rakujawan created by koetsu still exist.
also,jokei successfully established a relationship with the tokugawa shogunate.
he received a seal of 'raku' (楽)from hidetada tokugawa,and was ordered by the bakufu(japanese feudal government headed by a shogun)to make a koro(incense burner)to be placed in front of the grave when hidetada died.
the koro created for the death of hidetada was found in 1958 when the mausoleum of tokugawa family at the zojo-ji temple was excavated.
major works
black raku tea bowl, 'kuroki' (black tree):a property of raku museum
red raku tea bowl, 'kikunoe aka-rakujawan' (chrysanthemum's picture,red raku tea bowl):a property of raku museum;chrysanthemum's picture are drawn on the surface of a red raku tea bowl using hakuyu.
koroyu ido-gata rakujawan(a tea bowl with a glaze which jokei raku first used for koro,incense burner):a property of raku museum
black raku tea bowl, 'hototogisu' (lesser cuckoo):a property of fujita museum
black raku tea bowl, 'tekkai' (name of immortal mountain wizard):a property of tekisui art museum
koro(incense burner)for putting brown glaze foo dog with peony on:a property of tokyo national museum
koroyu akoda koro(a glaze which jokei raku first used for koro,incense burner in the akoda melon shape)
koroyu nukai-shishi koro(a glaze which jokei raku first used for koro,incense burner with lions facing each other):a property of raku museum
