kanemigi yoshida
kanemigi yoshida(may 31,1516-february 22,1573)was the eighth head of the yoshida family,a "tosho-ke" (the hereditary lineage of court nobles occupying relatively high ranks-its social standing was hanke(court noble),the urabe clan).
he was also the 24th family head of the urabe clan.
he was the author of yusoku kojitsu(court and samurai rules of ceremony and etiquette)book "kanshokunangi" and a shintoism book "kanemigikyoki."
career
he was the second son of his biological father,a lesser councilor of state(hisangi-advisor at large-shosanmi or senior third rank),nobukata kiyohara(known as nobukata funabashi,the third son of hisangi kanetomo yoshida).
he was adopted by jingi taifu(senior assistant head of the department of shinto)and chamberlain,kanemitsu yoshida who had biological no child to inherit.
he was the father of kanemi yoshida,jingi taifu(senior assistant head of the department of shinto)and saemon no kami(captain of the left division of outer palace guards),and shinryuin bonshun.
he served the government as a chamberlain,jingi taifu(senior assistant head of the department of shinto)-cum-uhyoe no kami(captain of the right division of middle palace guards)and a junii(junior second rank).
because kanemitsu yoshida who was the family head of the yoshida suddenly ran away in 1525,his cousin kanemigi succeeded to the family at the young age of ten.
kanemigi's father nobukata became his conservator,and yuiitsu shinto(one-and-only shinto)was succeeded.
he actively promoted shintoism thought founded by his grandfather kanetomo;he issued sogen senji(decrees of foundations and origins)and shinto saikyojo(license proof for a shinto priest)to shrines and shinto priests nationwide.
at the same time,he had socialized with otona(village leaders)and parishioners in rural areas to spread the yoshida's.
above all,the ouchi clan in suo and the wakasa-takeda clan in echizen invited him to initiate shintoism.
he died at the age of 58 in february 22,1573.
according to his will,shadan(a small shrine)was built near yoshida-jinja shrine and he had been deified as yuishin reishin.
