moritoki hojo
moritoki hojo was a family member of the hojo clan in the end of kamakura period.
he was the sixteenth(last)regent of the kamakura bakufu(japanese feudal government headed by a shogun).
his father was hisatoki hojo of the hojo clan(akahashi line).
he was also called moritoki akahashi.
takauji ashikaga,who destroyed the kamakura bakufu,was his sister's husband.
brief personal history
after karyaku no sodo(karyaku rebellion)in april 1327,he became the 16th regent on may 16,but real power was held by takatoki hojo of the tokuso family of the hojo clan,and uchi-kanrei(head of tokuso family)takasuke nagasaki,etc.
in june 1333,when gokenin hitto(head of an immediate vassal of the shogunate in the kamakura and muromachi through edo periods)takauji ashikaga,who was his affine,lead a rebellion against the bakufu while he was on an expedition in kyoto and captured rokuhara tandai(an administrative and judicial agency in rokuhara,kyoto),moritoki's position in the bakufu became weaker and he was suspended by takatoki.
on june 30,1333,he made a sortie against the forces of overthrowing the shogunate lead by yoshisada nitta and waged a fierce battle against the nitta forces in the kobukuro-zaka slope,an important point for a traffic to the center of kamakura,but finally he was hopelessly outnumbered and committed suicide in susaki(around fukazawa,kamakura city,kanagawa prefecture).
his age at death was 39.
chronological list of the main events
*dates are in old lunar calendar.
1311:he assumed the post of hyojoshu(a member of council of state)in bakufu.
during his service,he successively held the posts of sakone no shogen(lieutenant of the left division of inner palace guards),sanuki no kami(the governor of sanuki province),and musashi no kami(the governor of musashi province).
1313:he assumed additional post of hikitsuke tonin(chairman of the court of justice).
1326:he resigned the posts of hyojoshu and hikitsuke tonin.
date unknown:he was transferred to sagami no kami(the governor of sagami province).
april 24,1327:he became a regent.
date unknown:he was promoted to jushiinoge(junior forth rank,lower grade).
may 18,1333:he committed suicide.
his age at death was 39.
his homyo(a name given to a person who enters the buddhist priesthood)was jikoin dohon.
