koken otani
koken otani(september 4,1965-)is a jodo shinshu(true pure land sect buddhism)priest and the 26th hoshu(high priest)of the higashi hongan-ji school of the jodo shinshu sect.
he is the head priest of higashi hongan-ji temple(taito ward,tokyo),the head temple for higashi hongan-ji sect.
his homyo(posthumous buddhist name)is monnyo.
his childhood name was koyomaro.
he graduated from the department of physics,faculty of science and engineering,waseda university school.
career
he was born the first son of kosho otani(konyo),the 25th hoshu(head priest)of the higashi hongan-ji school of the jodo shinshu sect.
his mother was kiyoko otani,the first daughter of shujun nijo,the 28th hoshu of the josho-ji school,shinshu sect.
in 1975,he entered the buddhist priesthood of the otani school,shinshu sect.
in 1981,his father,kosho,who was the hoshi(successor to an abbacy)to the otani school,shinshu sect and the chief priest of tokyo branch temple,tokyo hongan-ji temple,was forced to separate his temple from the otani school shinshu sect because of a conflict with the naikyoku(intra-ministerial bureau),and was removed from the priesthood;thereby,koken succeeded as hoshi(successor of principle).
in 1988,kosho announced that koken would concurrently hold the post of hoshi(successor of principle)for the jodo shinshu sect,higashi hongan-ji school(main temple is tokyo hongan-ji temple)that kosho established;however,the otani school of shinshu sect would not allow it,and in 1989,koken decided to leave the otani school of to join the higashi hongan-ji school.
thereafter,as hoshi for the jodo shinshu higashi hongan-ji school,he worked to increase its disciples,and in 1999,he became the 26th hoshu upon kosho's death,
in 2001,the name of the main temple,tokyo hongan-ji temple was approved for a change to the jodo shinshu sect,higashi hongan-ji school,honzan higashi hongan-ji temple,and he served in the ceremony for public announcement of the name of the temple and succession of the next hoshu.
