munizo yuki
munizo yuki(may 22,1845-may 17,1912)was a person,who claimed himself to be former soldier of the kyoto mimawarigumi(the group who patrolled kyoto)as well as the shinsengumi.
his childhood name was yonetaro(米太郎),then became umunosuke(有無之助)as well as munizo(無二三).
his name was kagesuke(影祐)but was called as 'keiyuu' by his acquaintances.
his childhood name, 'umunosuke' meant 'there is a person or none,who is as bold as me in this world' and 'munizo' means 'there are no two or three people in this tenka(country)as bold as me.'
it could be said that he was a person filled with high self-esteem.
in addition,he was mistaken for 'mugizo(麦造)' (one who produces wheat)sometimes since it was hard to distinguish from the pronunciation 'munizo.'
he had an alibi for the shinsengumi concerning the assassination of ryoma sakamoto and influenced researchers studying shinsengumi,but is currently labeled as a self-proclaimed 'soldier' since his registration in manuscripts of shinsengumi during that period was not confirmed.
in addition,he was later known as a priest and missionary of the japanese methodist church.
"omaetachi no ojiisama" (your grandfather)
the achievement of munizo yuki was told in detail in "omaetachi no ojiisama" by his son,reiichiro yuki(1878-october 17,1939),who was the reporter of 'the kokumin shinbun' (the national newspaper)and also involved with the first publication of 'the teikoku shinbun' (the newspaper of the empire).
in other words,this maybe the only record written about him.
the actual book was treated as a reference which seemed to be filled with reality(such as there was a stick-like stick on top of a shoe cupboard)and written in an oral style of the son of munizo,reiichiro yuki,telling his son(the grandson of munizo),but following points were doubtful.
the assassination of ryoma sakamoto
the part that received most attention in this book was the place where he claimed to be the 'former soldier' of shinsengumi,who was considered to be the suspect of the 'assassination of ryoma sakamoto,' the incident of that period which received most attention.
the following two points were the claims he made.
the assassination of sakamoto occurred in november 15,1867,but the heads of the shinsengumi were discussing how to purge the faction lead by kashitaro ito.
it claimed that the shinsengumi was not related to the murder of sakamoto because there was no reason for the soldiers would act while their leaders did not move.
he claimed that nobuo imai,who had just joined the kyoto mimawarigumi,had killed sakamoto in order to prove his strength.
munizo,who was a former mimawarigumi soldier,had relations with mimawarigumi even after joining the shinsengumi,and heard the story from imai several times.
in addition,reiichiro also met with imai who visited munizo,and submitted the details of the assassination of sakamoto which he forcefully extracted,to 'the kai shinbun' (the kai newspaper).
since it was a continuous article,they dramatize the story a little and serialized,and the senior editor of the same newspaper submitted to 'kinki hyoron' (the review of kinki region)of kyoto when he retired there that this was noticed by the eyes of tateki tani who stressed on "the suspect theory of shinsengumi" and imai received severe criticisms.
concerning this,reiichiro wrote to imai that he would like to "express his sincere apologies" at the same time and commented that the claim made by tani was "impossible."
the record of the soldiers of shinsengumi
the book was handled as an important testimony which denied the claims against the shinsengumi concerning the assassination of ryoma sakamoto covered in the above statement(or proved the suspect theory of nobuo imai),however there are still no records which objectively state that umunosuke yuki was registered with the shinsengumi(since he must have used the name before his official name change).
they could not determine umunosuke yuki being registered in any historical documents at that time,nor on the list of names of when the shinsengumi became the direct servant for the bakufu(japanese feudal government headed by a shogun)under the name of the mimawarigumi on june 10,1867,a record from december 12 of the same year in "doshi renmeiki" (written by shinpachi nagakura),the list of members created by toshizo hijikata on january 20,1868,or "senyu esugata" (painting about my fellow soldiers)painted by nobori nakajima after the battle of hakodate.
since his name could not be found even in documents which even included the guards of horses for isami kondo and people from kuwana han(kuwana domain),who suddenly joined the party,as a soldier(comrade),it was one reason that it was assumed that he was not registered.
in addition,there were many places,as written below,where the book differed from other historical documents of that time as well as from posthumous manuscripts of soldiers.
umunosuke yuki had a close relation with shinsengumi from early on(from the period of mimawarigumi),and while he mentioned the fencing skill of kondo,hijikata,nagakura(written as either長倉or永倉),and keisuke yamanami as "effective(they were great masters of fencing)," it did not mention soji okita,in which other materials referred to as a great master.
even though shinsengumi were constantly in contact with shojiro goto of tosa han(tosa domain),and knew about taisei hokan(the return of political power to the emperor by the tokugawa shogunate)beforehand,it was written in such a way that it the event was unexpected and surprising for the shinsengumi.
although it mentioned that shinsengumi was recruited as the bakushin(servants of bakufu)in organizing koyo chinbutai(a military unit formed especially for the campaign in kai province)on february 15,1868,it actually happened on june 10,1867.
for these reasons,there were many researchers who doubt that umunosuke yuki was registered with shinsengumi,and if he had any connection with shinsengumi,it must be from the rumor he heard from the soldier,ichiro iwasaki,whom he befriended after the meiji period.
munizo yuki as the missionary
even though there was no proof that he spent the beginning of his life as 'umunosuke yuki' in mimawarigumi and shinsengumi,it is certain that he spent the later years of his life as 'munizo yuki' performing christian missionary works.
originally,he read the bible that he translated from chinese as reading material but became interested in christianity when he prayed and escaped from crisis when the couple could not take care of the toddler from having a high fever at the end of 1878,visited the lecture hall of canadian missionary,charles s.eby,who opened the lecture hall in koshusakura town in july 1878,and was deeply moved by the teachings that he was christened.
even though the practice of christianity was legalized once the meiji period began,it was a period when cities despised christianity as 'yaso' (slang for christianity)and claimed that christians 'eat the liver of living children' or 'use bad magic.' despite this,he devoted himself to missionary works and actually helped to spread christianity especially in the areas of shizuoka and yamanashi prefectures.
according to the writing of his son,he was called the 'd.l.moody of tokai region' (d.l.moody was the famous missionary in the usa)and word of his name reached as far as kyoto and osaka.
records could be seen in various churches of the united church of christ in japan that account him as a missionary other than in "omaetachi no ojiisama."
he was the first 'fukuin shi' (an evangelist)of japan.
this position was given as a replacement for official priesthood as 'the person who freely does missionary work without having to stay in one church.'
however,it became a position given to new missionaries and the income from the church of munizo was reduced.
according to himself,it was a hindrance caused by the opposing party.
incidentally,he was supposedly not profound in lectures or the hymns.
it is assumed that believers gathered around him due mainly to his enthusiasm and personality.
charles.s.eby
in japanese,his name is written as 'ibi-,' 'i-bi,' 'i-bii,' 'i-bu,' and was 'ibii' in "omaetachi no ojiisama" (we will use 'ibi-' (eby)here that shows up often in search engines).
he was also called "doctor eby."
he was one of the missionaries who were active during the first christian missionary period,and had many achievements including the establishment of hongo chuo kaido(hongo central church).
he entered nanbu town,yamanashi prefecture on june 1876 and was among the first to carry out missionary work promoting christianity in yamanashi prefecture.
he gave lectures on english in a private cram school,moken juku(moken gakusha)of yoshinori kondo,for a month in summer of 1877.
he built the lecture hall for missionary work in kofu sakura town in july 1878.
he built hongo chuo kaido(currently hongo sanchome station(hongo third block station))in hongo,bunkyo ward,tokyo in 1890.
he was followed by an organist,edward gauntlett(the brother-in-law of kosaku yamada)and underwent sandai(visit the imperial palace)to perform 'gentokai' (pipe organ performed in hongo chuo kaido)for the emperor meiji on may 5,1892.
personal profile
as can be seen from the previous passage,munizo yuki was filled with confidence and had strong ambitions.
in fact,he used to use the expression, "will become the head of a country and castle," and even tried to promote himself a little.
this was due to self-conceit that can be attributed to his being a descendant of fujiwara no hidesato,and a high class family which served both takauji ashikaga and shingen takeda.
on the other hand,he built a fine tomb stone for ichiro minami,his close friend,became a devout christian,and showed a generous side by being affectionate toward his children,and continued the missionary work despite being persecuted at the beginning of the christian period,nor did he show any emotion when a cancer of the stomach grew to a size that even surprised his doctors,which l indicated that he was an individual that possessed a strong will.
he also seemed to have strongly disapproved toward yoshinobu tokugawa,who frequently changed his attitude suddenly due to political reasons,saccho(satsuma domain and choshu domain)who vowed loyalty toward the emperor but fired guns toward the palace,and people,who originally shouted for the exclusion of foreigners and once the meiji era began,talked about kaikoku(the opening of japan)and kaimei(enlightenment).
although it is a fact that munizo yuki has not been objectively confirmed to have been registered to the shinsengumi,he was not a swindler-like person as some have referred to him as.
it was his son reiichiro,who wrote as if his father made a public claim that we was a shinsengumi soldier.
concerning this point,putting aside the actual truth of the matter,the devotion by reiichiro towards his father can be clearly seen through his skillful writing.
career as the missionary
on may 22,1845,he was born in hikawa village,kai province(current yamanashi city,higashi yamanashi district,yamanashi prefecture).
his ancestor was tomomitsu yuki,the descendant of fujiwara no hidesato,who ruled shimofusa no kuni(shimofusa province)and was of the family line of the servant of the takeda clan,who served minamoto no yoritomo and the family of ashikaga shogun.
his family line at the end of bakufu produced generations of physicians,and his father was a well known physician even in the neighboring towns.
he witnessed the commotion that occurred due to the arrival of matthew perry in the spring of 1860,and he pleaded with his father when he was sixteen years old to represent the good family and left for edo in order to train in medicine.
while he trained as the student of bakufu goteni(a doctor,who worked for the bakufu)(anonymous),he began to learn japanese fencing in a nearby martial art hall in 1861.
he could not stop the ambition that grew from extreme ideals of sonnojoi(revere the emperor,expel the barbarians)and escaped from the goteni to enter the place of the confucius scholar,totsuan ohashi.
here,he debated national affairs with fellow believers and learned western shooting at the kobusho(martial arts training hall).
at this time,he was adopted as an attendant of hasegawa as a formality(because only the bakushin(servant or high family of bakufu)could enter the kobusho).
ohashi,who was engaged in the sakashita mongai incident,was arrested on february 13,1862,and umunosuke,who was not involved,came under suspicion as a pupil as he hid himself at the residence of a friend of his.
soon,he received word from koshu that his father was in critical condition and returned home,but his father passed away.
contrary to the persuasion of those around him,he refused to inherit his standing as a physician and instead went to edo again.
yoshinobu tokugawa was assigned to be the next shogun in july and ohashi was pardoned,but ohashi was assassinated.
umunosuke was stimulated by the movement of joi ha(an exclusionist)such as the namamugi incident,and recruited comrades to perform the exclusion of foreigners himself,but was discovered by the bakufu that he had escaped from edo and so he moved to kyoto in order to flee from his captors.
umunosuke went to kyoto in either 1863 or 1864,but was devastated when he learned that there were violent groups,who excluded foreigners in name only,and became kishukunin(the boarder)(the soldier who was not bakushin)who took care of kyoto mimawarigumi in order to punish those people by asking for the help of sakuro murata,who was an acquaintance of his from when they were in edo.
he supposedly became close with isami kondo of the newly formed shinsengumi.
on january 1,1865,mimawarigumi and bette gumi mobilized in order to attack the mito tengu to(mito tengu party),who was going west,and umunosuke assigned lodgings with sakuro murata in otsu city.
in addition,he ventured out to scout with sukejuro aoyama,determined the location of kounsai takeda,was stopped at hikone han(hikone domain)due to misinterpretation,and saw the end of tengu to and returned to the army.
on february 26,1865,he participated as the representative of mimawarigumi during the inquisition of kounsai takeda party.
during the choshu campaign,his cannon firing skills were valued and so he was reassigned and fought as the ozutsu gumi(a group in charge of cannon).
in addition,at this time,he became acquainted with tesshu yamaoka.
in december 1866,the emperor komei passed away.
umunosuke yuki was already registered in the shinsengumi(however,there is no record that proves this claim).
on november 9,1867,taisei hokan occurred.
umunosuke was observing the family of tadayasu nakayama around this time under the secret orders of kondo,but since heisuke todo,who accompanied him reported to satsuma han(satsuma domain),he failed to quell the tobaku no micchoku(the imperial order to satsuma han to subjugate bakufu).
due to this incident,the conspiracy of the party kashitaro ito was revealed and shinsengumi including umunosuke called out ito and assassinated him on december 13(november 18 in old lunar calendar).
afterwards,they had a severe sword fight with the ito party who arrived to the scene(abura no koji incident).
it is claimed that ryoma sakamoto was assassinated three days before,but since shinsengumi was busy scheming to purge the ito party,it is said that they did not have time to be involved in the assassination of sakamoto.
on january 3(december 9 in old lunar calender),due to the decree(of 1868)for the restoration of imperial rule,the kyoto shugoshoku(military governor of kyoto)and kyoto shoshidai(the kyoto deputy)were abolished and both the aizu han(aizu domain)and kuwana han(kuwana domain)left the kinri(the imperial palace).
on january 7,while yoshinobu tokugawa retreated to hirakata city,shinsengumi went to the nijo-jo castle followed by naoyuki nagai,who had the title of wakadoshiyori(junior councilor),but became hostile with honkokuji gumi(the group of honkoku-ji temple)of mito han(mito domain)led by isshinsai oba.
on january 10,he was stationed at fushimi bugyosho(magistrate office in fushimi)when he followed nagai to go to osaka.
during dusk on january 12,kondo was attacked by goryo eishi zanto(the remaining group of imperial guards)(he later went to osaka to heal).
on january 19,the soldiers of bakufu and various domain burnt down the palace of satsuma han(satsuma domain),and yoshinobu decided to mobilize the army on january 22.
on january 26,1868,shinsengumi also joined up with shigekata takenaka and attacked osaka and made a formation in fushimi.
umunosuke became a commander for the cannon crew.
on january 27,there was an outburst at the battle of toba and fushimi.
on january 28,due to the miscommunication of commands and strong winds,they lost the battle and left for fushimi ward while leaving behind the canon,and shinsengumi experienced casualties of thirty to forty people.
on january 29,the bakufu army tried to enter yodo han(yodo domain)but was refused.
on january 30,even though the bakufu army retreated to yawata city,it escaped after the tsu han(tsu domain)changed sides,and yoshinobu tokugawa secretly escaped to edo by boarding kaiyomaru.
on february 5,shinsengumi retreated to edo with the warship 'fujiya(naval warship)' and arrived at shinagawa on february 7.
on march 8,koyo chinbutai was established,and umunosuke was assigned to be chirikyodo ken taiho sashizuyaku in addition to being appointed to the navy of koyo chinbutai.
on this day,kondo became wakadoshiyori kaku,hijikata became yoriai seki(upper class officials of bakufu)and all soldiers became kojunin kaku(escort guard)(while it referred to recruitment to bakushin,it actually happened on july 11 of the previous year).
on march 21,they travel to edo.
they were welcomed in the home village of kondo and hijikata of hachioji city,fuchu city(tokyo)in the middle and reached sagamiko town on march 25.
on march 26,they could not leave due to snow in otsuki city.
on march 27,when they entered koshu city,they received word that tosa no kuni(tosa province)and inaba no kuni(inaba province)armies had entered kofu,and umunosuke proceeded to katsunuma town to station the cannons.
on march 28,he set up the barrier in katsunuma and returned home.
on march 29,although he recruited many peasant soldiers in a village near his home,he heard sounds from the battle of koshu katsunuma at higashi yamanashi district and hid at his mother's parental home at fuefuki city making it back to the group even though he wished to do so.
around march 31,he disguised himself as a farmer and burst through the surrounding tosa and inaba armies,escaped to omiya city,and stayed with a local gambler.
he heard sad news about the clearing of edo castle,the confinement of yoshinobu,execution of isami kondo,and contemplated committing suicide himself but thought otherwise.
in april,when iesato tokugawa inherited the head of the tokugawa family,all of his servants had to stay away from the word 'suke(助)' and so decided to change his name to 'munizo'.
in june,tokugawa family moved their estate to suruga no kuni(suruga province)and met with ichiro iwasaki,who was the shinsengumi ordered to go under kinshin(confine)himself in numazu city,and munizo himself was ordered kinshin when he admitted a defeat himself so he moved to numazu.
in 1868,numazu heigakko(numazu officer academy)was established,and munizo entered the attached elementary school.
from the end of 1868,he hid with the former shinsengumi members,ichiro minami and mototaro takeuchi in edo,to assassinate the former shinsengumi soldiers,hayakawa and fukui(first names were unknown)by the order of kuninosuke abe of numazu kinban gumi(edo duty of numazu)but ran out of money so they begged for money from kaishu katsu in january but were scolded instead over the disposal of hayakawa and fukui.so they decided to end the conflict peacefully through negotiations with both parties.
on december 14,he visited hikogoro sato of hino city along with ichiro minami and takeo ishikawa and discussed the dismissing the name of kondo and hijikata.
in 1870,he met with kaishu katsu,who was visiting suruga.
on february 26,1871,his close friend and the former soldier of shinsengumi,ichiro minami was assassinated by someone outside of numazu city.
his tomb was later built by munizo and others.
in the spring of 1872,due to the recommendation of tesshu yamaoka and kaishu katsu,there was a talk about herding cattle at izu oshima island.
on september 10,when it was being prepared,there turmoil occurred as they tried to unify the tax law in koshu,which developed into a riot by farmers(daishogiri sodo(daishogiri riot)).
munizo headed for koshu in order to subjugate the riot,but it had already ended by the time he arrived and returned home to pick up farming again.
in 1873,he started a fish shop but since the business did not go well,he closed the shop.
in november 1875,he planned and executed an exhibition(there were nagano and iida expositions in same year,and it was uncertain as to which it pointed to).
he later married the daughter of chozaemon maeda,who was the former kofu han,who he was friends with,and established his new home at kofu city.
they started dairy farming as a couple,producing and selling milk,but the province started the same business just when things were going smoothly,resulting in their business being suppressed,which caused them to return to their parent's home.
he decided to hide from the public under the meiji government,and moved into an abandoned temple located deep in the mountain of higashi yatsushiro district with two cows and one cat.
he brought a bible for reading and this spurred his interest in religion later on.
in 1876-1877,he made a living by cultivating the mountain of taishaku-ji temple with a farmhand.
at this time,the mountain including taishaku-ji temple became the part of goryochi(an imperial estate)but was granted to munizo free of rent.
in 1878,his eldest son,reiichiro yuki was born in the home of taishaku-ji temple.
in the end of the year,the couple were both sick with colds,and munizo remembered the bible as he watched his crying baby and he prayed to jehovah,who became miraculously well,and it was this event which opened his eyes to christianity.
in 1879,he began studying bible as he started to believe in jehovah and went down the mountain to meet with the missionary of the methodist church in canada,eby(he is commonly referred as "(cs)ibi-"),to consult his faith once learning that a catholic priest was in nagano prefecture,and visited missionary eby on april 6 with his wife and baby(reiichiro)and had him christened.
he later started missionary work while he attended lectures by the same missionary.
in the spring of 1880,he left his wife and son in kofu to leave for tokyo alone to seriously study religion and entered 'toyo eiwa school' of azabu and performed missionary works at ushigome church while studying.
in 1882-1883,he was dispatched to shizuoka church(currently the united church of christ in japan shizuoka church)located on sixth street,shizuoka city at that time.
at this time,his father in law,chozaemon maeda passed away.
he took in his mother-in-law.
around june in 1883,he was assigned to be the first priest in canadian methodist church,hamamatsu church(currently the united church of christ in japan hamamatsu church).
he managed to successfully carry out missionary tasks even in the middle of the strong yaso suppression movement and opened a church in mitsuke,kakegawa,and fukuroi.
in 1885,he returned to kofu as the first japanese 'fukuin shi.'
by this time,his two daughters were born.
in 1886,his second son was born this year.
in 1887,at this time,regulations were established,conflict between different fractions occurred,and priest eby,whom he trusted,returned to canada,so munizo left the central region and built the lecture hall at shioyama city and started the 'rural missionary.'
he later shifted the station of his missionary works to kusakabe and yawata villages.
at this time,he converted nobuaki iijima and tokubei nakazawa,who later became the head members of the japanese methodist church kusakabe church(current united church of christ in japan kusakabe church),as believers.
in 1890,he moved to nirasaki city,kitakoma district and established a lecture hall.
at this time,he sent his wife and children to kofu due to poverty(since 'missionary' became a position given to new believers and his income lessened as well as consumption also increased with the increase of family members)and stayed alone at nirasaki.
when eby missionary came to japan again,he built the chuo kaido at hongo,tokyo(bunkyo ward)but it was burnt down due to fire.
eby missionary went all over the place to receive donations when he returned back to his home country.
the third daughter of munizo was born this year.
in 1891,eby missionary came back to japan again and rebuilt chuo kaido in hongo.
this building was created to do services other than performing missionary works for christianity.
in 1892,eby missionary invited munizo once the hongo chuo kaido was completed,but he decided to stay in nirasaki according to the will of the church.
at this time,he made his son,reiichiro enter a middle school.
in march 1893,munizo went to tokyo and worked under eby missionary and built a dorm which eventually became the 'keimei kan.'
eby missionary returned to canada after this due to being low in funds.
the third son of munizo was born.
in 1894,due to being low in funds,he stopped holding special services at chuo kaido.
munizo made the boarding house into lodging and made a living by collecting rent.
in 1895,boarders,who saw the wretched condition of munizo,decided to move away from the boarding house to lessen the burden,and munizo used the back of the residence of yataro iwasaki in ryomo town(currently in yushima,bunkyo ward,tokyo;the residence of iwasaki was completed in the following 1896,and it is believed that it was still under construction then)to create a boarding house.
however,this arrangement did not last long,and opened up a sweet shop in shitaya kuromon town but the next door was the long established sweet shop that he moved to hongo morikawa town and opened up the sweet shop.
here,the shop prospered due to the original sweet which was made from mixing milk into millet jelly,but stress on the store management increased due to samples being consumed,and so the shop transferred again,this time to hongo yushima shinhana cho,but this did not go over well either.
he decided to end the merchandizing work and was reassigned as a missionary in shitaya negishi kogisho(shitaya negishi lecture hall)but nobuaki iijima and tokubei nakazawa pleaded that he returned to koshu.
in 1896,his fourth daughter was born.
in 1899,he moved to katsunuma church this year after being assigned to isawa,kofu,and kusakabe.
in june 1901,he finished his missionary work and returned home to the mountain of taishaku-ji temple to start his retirement.
he lost his fourth daughter to illness at the end of the year.
in 1907,he went out of taishaku-ji temple and moved into the house that his son,reiichiro built in shibuya ward and began a chicken farm but due to circumstances,moved to meguro ward.
in 1909,the person whom they assigned to manage the chicken farm was deficient and the business closed down.
in summer of 1911,munizo moved along with reiichiro,who went to osaka in order to establish 'the teikoku shinbun.'
after the 'the teikoku shinbun' failed and reiichiro moved to tokyo,munizo moved to okubo,tokyo(shinjuku ward)after awhile.
on may 17,1912,he died of stomach cancer at okubo.
*the time table used was referenced from the biography written by his son.
