teruhiro daigo
teruhiro daigo(may 29,1791-october 4,1859)was a kugyo(a court noble)and a retainer of the imperial court during the late edo period.
he served three emperors:emperor kokaku(119th),emperor ninko(120th),and emperor komei(121th);he held the office of naidaijin(minister of the center)and rose to the rank of shoichii(junior first rank).
his father was gon dainagon(a provisional chief councilor of state),teruhisa daigo.
his mother was the daughter of shigeyoshi hachisuka,the lord of tokushima domain(the adopted daughter of teruyoshi ichijo).
his foster father was kanpaku(chief adviser to the emperor)teruyoshi ichijo.
his first wife was the daughter of yoshihisa hachisuka(teruyoshi ichiro's adopted daughter)of the tokushima domain,and his keishitsu(second wife)was the daughter of masahiro takatsukasa,jusango(honorary rank next to the three empresses:great empress dowager,empress dowager,and empress).
he had sons such as tadayoshi daigo and gon dainagon,tadaosa daigo.
he was considered as a child of the head family,the ichijo family.
he was conferred a peerage in 1793.
he promoted very quickly as the family head of the seiga family,and successively served as palace staff,sakone gon no shosho(provisional minor captain of the left division of inner palace guards)as well as sakone gon no chujo(provisional middle captain of the left division of inner palace guards),and in 1800,he became jusanmi(junior third rank)and ranked with kugyo(a court noble).
after that,he served as toka no sechie geben(a kugyo who supervised many matters outside jomei gate at toka no sechie(imperial court ceremony),gon chunagon(a provisional vice councilor of state),and in 1815,he became gon dainagon.
after a long time of no promotion,in 1840,he assumed the position of toka no sechie naiben(a kugyo who supervised inside jomei gate at toka no sechie(imperial court ceremony)and in 1846,he was appointed as naidaijin(minister of the center),ukone no daisho(major captain of the right division of inner palace guards),and umaryo gogen(inspector of the right division of bureau of horses).
in 1848,he resigned all the job grades.
in 1849,he was given juichii(junior first rank).
