sou yamamura
sou yamamura(real name:hirosada koga,february 24,1910-may 26,2000)was a japanese actor and a movie director.
he was born in tenri city,nara prefecture.
his name(山村聰)is also written as "山村聡."
biography and personal profile
after graduation from hyogo prefectural kobe high school,daiichi high school(the first old-education-system high school),and the faculty of letters,university of tokyo,yamamura joined the theater research group 'taiyo-za.'
having experienced theater performances including activities in bunka-za theater company before the war,he debuted in the movie "inochi aru kagiri" (with all my life)in 1946.
in 1947,he was singled out to play hogetsu shimamura,a lover of sumako matsui played by kinuyo tanaka in the movie "joyu sumako no koi" (love of actress sumako)directed by kenji mizoguchi.
he subsequently appeared in numerous movies including "munakata kyodai" (munakata sisters)directed by yasujiro ozu in 1950,for which yamamura won the first blue ribbon award as the best actor.
at the same time,he also established an independent production company 'gendai production' in 1952,and also had been active as a director including the release of "kanikosen"(the crab cannery ship),the first movie he directed in the next year.
since the 1960s,he also appeared in many tv dramas such as "tadaima juichinin" (now we are eleven), "haru no sakamichi" (a hill in spring), "hissatsu shikakenin" (professional killers), "kareinaru ichizoku" (the perfect family),and "the hangman."
he often played a father,or a dignified big shot.
he played the role of prime minister as many as 4 times in such movies and tv dramas as "sekai daisenso" (the great world war)(movie), "nosutoradamusu no daiyogen" (nostradamus's great prophecies)(movie),and "nihon chinbotsu" (sinking of japan)(tv drama).
on may 26th,2000,he died of acute cardiac infarction in a hospital in nakano ward,tokyo metropolis.
awards
blue ribbon awards
1950:the best actor award for "munakata kyodai" (munakata sisters)
1961:the best supporting actor award for "are ga minato no tomoshibida" (that is a light of the harbor), "kako" (the river mouth)
mainichi film awards
1950:the best supporting actor award for "munakata kyodai" (munakata sisters), "otone no yagiri" (night fog over the great tone river), "kikyo" (coming home)
1954:the best actor award for "yama no oto" (the sound of the mountain), "kuroi ushio" (the black tide)
kinema junpo
1964:the best actor award for "kizudarake no sanga" (mountains and rivers with scars)
japan movie critics award
1995:the golden glory award
japan academy prize
2001:chairman's special award
achievements
1977:shiju hosho(medal of honor with purple ribbon)
1983:the order of the rising sun,gold rays with rosette
