tadamoto honda
tadamoto honda(april 12,1817-january 29,1883)was a daimyo(feudal lord),statesman and roju(senior councilor)at the end of the edo period.
he was the lord of okazaki domain in mikawa province.
he was the fifteenth head of the tadakatsu line of the honda family.
he was the fifth son of yorinori matsudaira,the lord of takamatsu domain in sanuki province.
tadamoto was adopted by tadanaka honda,the lord of okazaki domain.
his legitimate wife was a daughter of tadataka honda.
he had a daughter(the legitimate wife of tadanao honda,the lord of okazaki domain in mikawa province).
he adopted tadahatsu honda and tadanao honda.
his official rank was jushiinoge(junior fourth rank,lower grade)chamberlain.
he was suke(assistant governor)of kazusa province,nakatsukasa-no-taifu(senior assistant minister of central affairs),and kami(governor)of mino province.
after he retired,he went by the name shishun.
in the bakufu(feudal government),he served as jisha-bugyo(commissioner of temples and shrines),kyoto-shoshidai(shogun's deputy in kyoto),and then roju.
in 1857,he assumed the office of kyoto-shoshidai,working hard as the liaison between the imperial court and the bakufu,especially over problems concerning the conclusion of treaties.
he served as a roju for two years from 1860,and in 1864,he received an order of reappointment to the post;he firmly refused at first but finally reassumed the office.
during the meiji restoration,he led the okazaki domain to obey the rule.
his seat as lord of okazaki was succeeded by tadanao(the son of yasunari makino),who had been adopted from komoro domain in shinshu.
career
1817:born.
1835:succeeded to okazaki domain.
1846:assumed the office of jisha-bugyo.
1857:assumed the office of kyoto-shoshidai.
1858:resigned as shoshidai with the rank of tamarizume(or tamari-no-ma-zume;entitled to occupy a seat in the tamari-no-ma chamber in the shogun's court where important matters of state were discussed).
1860:assumed the office of roju.
1862:resigned.
1864:reappointed to roju,serving as the head.
1865:resigned.
1869:retired.
1883:died.
died at the age of 67.
his was buried at seigan-ji temple(taito ward,tokyo),and later reburied at tama reien cemetery(fuchu city in tokyo).
