genpo mitsukuri
genpo mitsukuri(october 5,1799-august 1,1863)was a japanese samurai,feudal retainer of the tsuyama domain and dutch scholar.
his real name was貞一or kenju.
his azana(adult male's nickname)was痒西and his go(pen name)was shisen and hokoku.
biography
as a feudal retainer of the tsuyama domain
genpo was born the third son to teiko mitsukuri(joan the third,a doctor of the tsuyama domain)in nishishinmachi,mimasaka province(present-day,nishishin cho,tsuyama city,okayama prefecture).
the mitsukuri family had been engaged in medical practice since貞辨mitsukuri(joan the first)started to work as a general practitioner in nishishinmachi.
in november 28,1728,genpo's father,teiko,was promoted to 'oishinami' (domain doctor)of the echizen matsudaira family,the lord of the tsuyama domain,with a salary of junin fuchi(the equivalent of an annual ten-man rice stipend)from a town doctor.
after having lost his father at the age of four and his older brother,豊順mitsukuri,at the age of 12,genpo succeeded to the reigns of the family.
while learning confucianism from永田敬蔵(桐陰)and小島廣厚(天楽),genpo visited kyoto in 1816 to study medicine under bunpo takenaka for three years.
after three years of medical training,genpo returned from kyoto to work as a doctor in本町三丁目in 1819,and got married to toi omura in the following year.
he later was employed as an apprentice domain doctor with a salary of 50 koku(13.9 cubic meters),and in 1823,genpo accompanied the lord of the domain to visit edo and started to study western studies under genshin udagawa.
as a shogun's retainer
genpo was appointed as a translator of the astronomical observatory of the tokugawa shogunate and translated an official letter from president of the united states which was brought by matthew(calbraith)perry,and also visited nagasaki city as a member of negotiators with russia.
genpo was also appointed as a leading professor of bansho shirabesho(the institute for western studies)and promoted to the shogun's direct retainer.
it is confirmed that genpo translated 99 titles(nearly 160 volumes in total)including "taisei meii iko" (literary,western medicine),the first medical journal in japan, "geka hitsudoku" (literary,essentials for surgery), "sanka kanmei" (literary,a brief explanation about obstetrics), "oranda bunten" (literary,grammar of dutch language), "hakko tsushi" (literary,the overview of world history), "suijosen setsuryaku" (literary,a brief explanation about steamboat), "seisei kiko" (literary,records on the western world)and his specialty ranged from medical science,language,history of the western world,to military science and philosophy of religion.
many of the genpo's descendants grew to be famous scholars.
the birthplace of genpo still remains in nishishinmachi,tsuyama city.
the house is reminiscent of a mercantile house built during the edo period and was designated as the state's historic site on march 18,1975.
