kinosa ogimachisanjo
kinosa ogimachisanjo(march 30,1668-september 29,1719)was a kugyo(court noble)during the early and the middle of the edo period.
he was a retainer of the imperial court who served three emperors,emperor reigen(112th),emperor higashiyama(113th),and emperor nakamikado(114th)and was promoted to the official court rank of shonii dainagon(senior second rank,chief councilor of state).
his father was kinkado ogimachisanjo,sangi(councilor).
his mother is unknown.
his foster father was sanehisa ogimachisanjo,sangi(a younger brother of kinkado).
his adopted son was sanehiko ogimachisanjo,a government official of konoefu(the headquarters of the inner palace guards),the biological son of kinzumi shigenoi.
his adopted daughter was the wife of harunobu honami,a government official of jibusho(the ministry of civil administration),whose biological father was kaneyuki(or kanetaka)yoshida,a government official of emonfu(headquarters of the outer palace guards).
he was firstly named kinmitsu.
he was conferred a peerage in 1673.
later,he was gradually promoted from jiju(imperial household agency staff)to a government official of konoefu.
as his uncle sanehisa,who had succeeded to the ogimachisanjo family after the death of kinosa's father,died in 1695,he succeeded to the family estate.
he became sangi in the same year and joined kugyo.
later,he became chunagon(vice-councilor of state),and in 1711,assumed the position of dainagon(chief councilor of state).
in 1712,he undertook the position of jingutenso(shrine messenger to emperor).
in 1717,he served as toka no sechie later,he became toka no sechie(circle-dancing banquet:the last of the first month's three great banquets[sechie]which formerly took place from the fourteenth to the sixteenth of january in the shishinden[the throne hall]of the imperial court under the moonlight)naiben(a kugyo who supervised the imperial court ceremony inside of jomei gate).
in 1718,he resigned the position as jingutenso.
in 1719,he also resigned the position as dainagon.
he died in the same year.
died at the age of 52.
