fujiwara no yoritsune
fujiwara no yoritsune(february 12,1219-september 8,1256)was the 4th seii taishogun(literally, "great general who subdues the barbarians")of the kamakura shogunate.
as he came from the kujo family,one of the five sekke regent houses,he was also called yoritsune kujo,the sekke shogun.
his father was michiie kujo and his mother was rinshi,a daughter of kintsune saionji.
his childhood name was mitora(meaning three tigers)since he was born on the day,year and hour(4 am)of the tiger.
after minamoto no sanetomo was assassinated in 1219,the hojo clan,who served as regents(shikken)for the shogun,intended to install an imperial family member as shogun,but cloistered emperor gotoba rejected the idea.
thus yoritsune,a great-grandson of minamoto no yoritomo's sister,was brought to kamakura.
he was 2 years old at the time.
six years later,in 1225,he came of age and changed his name to yoritsune.
he took takenogosho,a daughter of the 2nd shogun,minamoto no yoriie,and 15 years older than him,as a wife.
the following year,he became the 4th shogun.
until then,there had been no shogun in the kamakura shogunate since the assassination of sanetomo.
originally installed as a puppet shogun by the hojo clan,as he got older and reached higher rank,the opponents of the hojo clan approached him,and he gradually enhanced his power base within the shogunate.
also,the fact that his father,michiie,and his maternal grandfather,kimitsune saionji,as kanto moshitsugi(the court official in charge of liaison with the shogunate),began to exercise authority over the shogunate and the imperial court became a serious problem.
this became more so after kimitsune,who had been mindful of the relationship with the hojo clan.died and was succeeded as kanto moshitsugi by michiie kujo,who was hostile to the hojo clan and started to intervene in the shogunate government.
as a result,the relationship between yoritsune and the shikken,tsunetoki hojo,worsened and in 1244,influenced by a nightmare,he ceded the position of shogun to fujiwara no yoritsugu,his first son by his official wife.
although he remained in kamakura after that,a plan by opponents of the hojo clan,including mitsutoki nagoe and centered on yoritsune,to ostracize the shikken was uncovered and he was sent back to kyoto in 1246.
(miya rebellion)
fujiwara(kujo)no yoritsune and fujiwara(kujo)no yoritsugu are both known as the sekke shogun.
chronology of government posts and ranks
lunar calendar used for dates.
december 29,1225,coming-of-age ceremony.
january 27,1226,admitted to shogoinoge(senior fifth rank,lower grade)and made konoe no shosho(minor captain of the palace guards).
named seii taishogun by the emperor.
march 12,allowed to wear the forbidden colors(kinjiki).
march 25,promoted to jushiijo(junior fourth rank,upper grade)and transferred to the position of ukone no chujo(middle captain of the right division of inner palace guards).
april 8,promoted to shoshiinoge(senior fourth rank,lower grade),retaining his position as ukone no chujo.
january 30,1232,made governor(kokushi)of bingo province.
february 27,promoted to jusanmi(junior third rank),retaining his position as ukone no chujo and governor(kokushi)of bingo province.
january 28,1233,made acting gon chunagon(provisional middle counselor).
december 21,1234,promoted to shosanmi(senior third rank),retaining his position as acting gon chunagon.
october 8,1235,made inspector(azechi)of mutsu province and dewa province.
november 19,promoted to junii(junior second rank),retaining his position as acting gon chunagon and azechi of mutsu province and dewa province.
july 20,1236,promoted to shonii(senior second rank),retaining his position as acting gon chunagon.
also assumed the position of minbukyo(in charge of taxation and finances.)
resigned from the position of azechi.
february 24,1238,made head of the imperial guards.
resigned from the position of minbukyo.
february 25,made head of the kebiishi(imperial police.)
march 7,promoted to the position of acting gon dainagon(provisional major counselor),retaining his position as head of the kebiishi and the imperial guards.
april 18,resigned from the positions of acting gon dainagon,head of the kebiishi and head of the imperial guards.
april 28,1244,resigned from the position of seii taishogun.
july 5,entered the priesthood.
changed his name to gyoga(written行賀).
