tadayuki makino
tadayuki makino was a daimyo(japanese feudal lord)during the late edo period.
the eleventh lord of echigo nagaoka domain in echigo province.
the twelfth family head of the makino clan with ties to the nagaoka domain.
he was the third son of norihiro ogyumatsudaira,the lord of nishio domain in mikawa province,and his mother was concubine.
noriyasu matsudaira,noritsune matsudaira were his brothers.
his legal wife was the daughter of sukemoto ota(foster daughter of tadamasa makino).
his children were tadakatsu makino(fourth son),tadaatsu makino(fifth son)and daughters(legal wife of tadakunkuni makino,legal wife of sadayasu makino,legal wife of tadahiro makino,second wife of honjo).
his childhood name was sonosuke.
his go(byname)was setsudo.
his official rank was jushiinoge(junior forth rank,lower grade),governor of bizen province(currently okayama prefecture)and genba no kami(director of the bureau of buddhism and aliens).
he was born in edo.
he became the foster child of tadamasa makino,the lord of nagaoka domain.
he succeeded as family head in 1858.
he worked as sojaban(an official in charge of the ceremonies),jisha-bugyo(magistrate of temples and shrines)and became kyoto shoshidai(kyoto deputy)in 1862.
he quit the post in june 1863 because 'there was a continuous string of incidents at kyoto at that time and impossible for a small domain like the nagaoka domain to handle the situation.'
three months later,in september,he became roju(member of shogun's council of elders)and mainly conducted negotiations with foreign countries.
at this time,he appointed his retainer,tsugunosuke kawai,as an official and carried out domain reforms.
in 1865,he quit the roju position when the government became overburdened with difficult problems.
resigning from the post of kyoto shoshidai and roju was kawai's advice.
he retired in july 1867 and transfer responsibility of the family to his foster child,tadakuni
after retirement,he called himself setsudo.
after the hokuetsu war,he was suspended,but forgiven when the meiji period started.
he was reinstated as family head due to the retirement of his biological son,tadakatsu,in february 1875.
he died at the age of fifty-five in 1878.
his grave is at saikai-ji temple,minato ward,tokyo.
