nobutaka oda
nobutaka oda was a busho(japanese military commander)and daimyo(japanese feudal lord)of the azuchi-momoyama period.
he was from a branch of the oda clan.
he was the successor of the kanbe clan,a local ruling family,which ruled the middle region of ise province,and so he also called himself nobutaka kanbe.
biography
during nobunaga's lifetime
in 1558,he was born as the third son of nobunaga oda.
his mother was a concubine from the saka clan.
(she was likely from a branch family of the ise kabuto clan or related to the owari senshu clan;according to "tales of kazutoyo's military exploits," ichirakusai ninomiya was nobutaka's maternal grandfather.)
it is said that his childhood name was sanshichi(literally,three and seven)(possibly because he'd been born on march 7).
in actuality,he was born a few days earlier than oda's second son,nobukatsu oda;however,possibly because his mother's status was low and because his birth was reported late,he was acknowledged as the third son.
however,his status by birth was not inferior to that of the ikoma clan:the saka clan was a branch family of the kabuto clan,which was a branch family of the top local ruling clan of ise province,the seki clan,which had originated from the taira family.
it is said that this story may have been intentionally made up to emphasize nobutaka's legitimacy as the head of the oda family after nobunaga's death,or to justify his having opposed nobukatsu who was his older brother,and that he actually was born later than nobukatsu.
another theory has it that nobutaka was born on may 2,1558.
he may have been born at a residence belonging to his maternal granduncle,yoshikatsu okamoto,of the owari people(people of tsushima).
nobutaka was adopted by tomomori kanbe,the lord of kanbe-jo castle(suzuka city,mie prefecture)which was surrendered when nobunaga subdued ise province in 1568,and he took over the kanbe clan in 1572 when tomomori was forced to retire by nobunaga.
when he was adopted,hikoemon koda accompanied him as denyaku(an adviser assigned directly by the shogun)and samurai who had been nobunaga's vassals such as taroemon okamoto,sensai saka,gonemon miyake,nuinosuke sakaguchi,sanemon yamashita,kichizaemon suematsu,tachiki and kawamura came to serve nobutaka.
in addition,the seki clan's seki,mine,kokufu and kabuto clans were assigned as yoriki(police sergeants).
after his succession,nobutaka put his efforts in the management of his territory such as introducing a land survey called the kanbe land survey,rakuichi-rakuza(free markets and open guilds)near the castle and the tenma(post horse)system,and kanbe thrived as a posting station on the ise shrine pilgrimage road.
between 1574 and 1575,he joined the battle to subdue the nagashima ikko ikki(an uprising of ikko sect followers in nagashima)in ise province and echizen ikko ikki(religious riot).
he also participated in the conquest of kishu in 1577 and the subjugation of murashige araki(the battle of arioka-jo castle)in 1578.
in addition,he acted as an executive officer and,in 1580,stayed in the capital,assisting sadakatsu murai and negotiating with the kinri(the imperial palace).
in august of the same year,when kyonyo of hongan-ji temple retreated,nobutaka greeted nobunaga in the capital to make a vow with him.
there is a furegaki(bakufu order)regarding the attack on chugoku district which was issued to the people of tanba and tango,indicating that he may have been given tanba province and tango province as his shoryo(territory)around that time.
he began expansion work on kanbe-jo castle in ise province at the same time,completing a five-story tenshukaku(keep or tower)and a modern castle with many turrets.
in 1582,he was assigned as commander-in-chief of the shikoku conquest.
(it is said to have been executed due to his strong urging,and there is a written document which includes the words "sanshichi-sama[nobutaka]went to shikoku,which he had wanted to do for a long time" in the jingu library).
he mobilized village leaders and peasants aged between 15 and 60 from kawano-gun and suzuka-gun,which were in his territory of northern ise,taking on ronin(samurai who had left their masters and lost their horoku[salary]),gathering people of iga,koka,and saiga,and organizing the expedition army.
he appointed nagahide niwa as the oda family's shukuro(a chief vassal of a samurai family),and his cousin nobusumi tsuda as vice-shogun.
during the shikoku conquest it was decided that nobutaka would be adopted by yasunaga miyoshi,and so tomomori kanbe was treated as the kanbe clan's family head once more.
however,the adoption was broken off,and he took the opportunity to build a new family.
after nobunaga's death
on july 1,while he was preparing to cross the sea,the honnoji incident broke out in sakai city,but he only managed to kill nobusumi tsuda,his cousin and mitsuhide akechi's son-in-law,hampered by a series of escaping soldiers(however,there is no evidence that nobusumi participated in the honnoji incident).
after that,he joined forces with hideyoshi toyotomi,who had completed the 'chugoku ogaeshi' (the term refers to hideyoshi's reaction to the honnoji incident,in which he rushed back to yamasaki,even though he had been fighting with the mori clan in bichu,when he learned the news)in tomita,settsu province(takatsuki city),and fought in the battle of yamasaki as a nominal supreme commander,defeating mitsuhide akechi.
despite his having been the supreme commander in the battle of nobunaga's revenge,his nephew hidenobu oda was chosen as the oda clan's successor in the kiyosu conference.
as the guardian of sanboshi(hidenobu),nobutaka became the lord of gifu-jo castle and was given mino province,which was the territory of his elder brother nobutada oda.
he subsequently approached katsuie shibata,who stood in opposition to hideyoshi,and acted as go-between in the wedding of katsuie and oichi no kata,his aunt.
in this way,he allied himself with katsuie shibata and kazumasu takigawa,chief vassals of the oda clan,and raised an army against hideyoshi,championing sanboshi in december of the same year.
however,due to hideyoshi's prompt action,he was forced to surrender and hand sanboshi over to hideyoshi as a hostage.
in 1583,when the battle of shizugatake broke out,nobutaka again raised an army.
however,gifu-jo castle,where he lived,was besieged in may of the same year by his brother nobukatsu;when katsuie,his only hope,committed suicide in kitanosho-jo castle,nobutaka surrendered to hideyoshi and opened gifu-jo castle.
nobutaka was sent to omido-ji temple(nomadaibo,where minamoto no yoshitomo had been assassinated in the late heian period)in noma,chita-gun,owari province(mihama-cho,aichi prefecture[aichi prefecture]),where he committed suicide.
he died at the age of 26.
kanbe-jo castle refused to accept nobutaka's head,so the coroner,gazaemon otsuka,brought it back to fukuzo-ji temple in seki-machi,ise province.
at the temple,a kubizuka(tomb for the head)was made,and nobutaka was given proper mourning.
one theory says he died on june 19,but another theory says it was june 21.
death haiku(japanese poem)
nobutaka's death haiku exudes his rage against hideyoshi: 'you killed the one you'd long served,may god strike you down,hashiba chikuzen.'
however,it is unlikely that nobutaka,a polished busho,would have written such a poor and obvious death haiku,and there is doubt as to whether the poem is actually his.
there is a story that he was so enraged during seppuku(suicide by disembowelment)that he flung his entrails away;however,not only has this been proven impossible from a medical standpoint,but also due to the manner of kaishaku(to assist someone in committing hara-kiri by beheading him),his head must have been cut off the moment the sword entered his abdomen,so the story is fictitious,and it is likely that the death haiku or rakushu(satire)was made up along with it.
descendants
nobutaka's biological mother(from the saka clan),his younger sister,his daughter and his concubine named kanbe no ita gozen were handed over to hideyoshi as hostages upon the surrender,and were killed by him.
the mothers of senior vassals yoshikatsu okamoto and of hikoemonnojo koda had been handed over as a hostage as well,and were also executed at that time.
a certain boy was executed at the time of his seppuku.
he had one other daughter,who became a legal wife of nobuhira oda.
nobutaka's great-grandson nobuaki(the son of nobushige kanbe)survived as a feudal retainer of takada domain,serving mitsunaga matsudaira,the family head of the matsudaira family of takada domain,echigo province.
nobuaki called himself saburoemon kanbe in takada domain and contributed to the development of new fields.
it is said that nobutaka had a legitimate son,hansuke nagatsune(半助長経);however,other than his name,nothing is known about him.
in a legend in fujisawa-shuku(a posting station which was located in the present fujisawa city,kanagawa prefecture),a family(kawakami clan)appears which claims as the descent from nobukuni oda,the second son of nobutoyo oda,who was himself the son of nobutaka's concubine from the ozuma clan;this family is still in existence.
nobukuni was born in ise province and,after he came of age,left home on a samurai warrior's quest,reaching fujisawa-shuku.
many families of the oda clan that became hatamoto(direct retainers of the bakufu,a form of japanese feudal government headed by a shogun)of the tokugawa registered nobutoyo as the family founder in their family tree.
however,it is not clear whether these truly are descendants of nobutaka.
it is probably a kishuryuri-tan(a type of folktale in which characters such as young deities or members of the nobility overcome trials to become a god or blessed).
however,it was natural at that time for a person of high rank to have concubines in order to protect his blood line,and nobutaka was a tenjobito(a high-ranking courtier allowed into the imperial palace)who was promoted as high as jiju(a chamberlain);therefore,it is likely that his concubines and their children actually existed and made themselves known in the tokugawa era.
on november 24,1892(the 25th year of the meiji period),the 'yomiuri shimbun' (newspaper)ran an article saying that a commoner from osaka prefecture claiming to be a direct tenth-generation descendant of nobutaka had submitted his family tree to the imperial household minister.
besides this,some in gifu have claimed to be descendants of the kanbe clan and have produced branch families such as the hirose clan.
personal profile
it is said that,of all nobunaga's sons,nobutaka bore the closest resemblance to his father,and his portrait in the hero hyakunin isshu(a collection of one hundred poems by one hundred poets)looks much like nobunaga in his youth(except for his costume).
according to documents of the time,he was highly appreciated:it is written that he was 'considerate,courteous to everyone and really courageous' (the annual report of the yasokai[jesuit society]),and that 'nobutaka was wiser and braver than others,being also a son of the shogun' (the tensho-ki[war chronicle on the tensho era]).
he was familiar with the christian society of jesus,and a missionary praised him highly,saying, 'he knows much about deus(god),glorifying deus whenever he is with lords and taishin(big feudal lords);he visits our gaza(big church)often and respects the padre(priest).'
legend says that both he and hideyoshi were given swords by the imperial court after the battle of yamasaki;that he frightened the kugeshu(court nobles)by carrying out the investigation of the akechi party inside the capital;that,at the battle against hideyoshi,nagatsugu iinuma(one of hideyoshi's vassals)was killed on suspicion of collaborating with nobutaka,and that after the battle hideyoshi never employed samurai who had served nobutaka.
in 1581,at the time of the great military parade in kyoto,nobutaka's rank was the forth after nobutada,nobukatsu,and nobukane oda.
among all the brothers and sisters of nobles,nobutaka was the only person entrusted with commanding the subjugation of a province,aside from nobutada,the successor.
he was given a sword by nobunaga,as were nobutada and nobukatsu.
