kanzaburo nakamura
kanzaburo nakamura is a kabuki(traditional drama performed by male actors)actor's professional name.
the stage family name of from the first to the 13th was kashiwaya,from the 14th to the 16th was maizuruya,and the 17th and later was nakamuraya(kabuki).
the jomon(family crest)is maru ni maizuru(a crane in a circle)at first,but was later changed to sumikiri icho(ginkgo leaves in an octagon)(for details,refer to 'kaku-ji hatto' [the prohibition law against the use of a chinese character "crane"]).
kanzaburo nakamura' was initially a professional name of zamoto(leader and manager of a theatrical company)of nakamura-za theater,which was one of edo's three licensed kabuki theaters,but in later ages,zamoto often became actors,or actors additionally became zamoto.
in the meiji period,as the result that theaters were corporatized and zamoto lost the management right, 'kanzaburo nakamura' became simply one of professional names of actors.
kanzaburo nakamura(the first)
kanzaburo nakamura(the second)
the second son of the first.
the first akashi nakamura.
kanzaburo nakamura(the third)
the third son of the first.
kanzaburo nakamura(the fourth)
an adopted child of the third.
he later called himself the first denkuro nakamura.
the second akashi nakamura.
kanzaburo nakamura(the fifth)
a child of the third.
kanzaburo nakamura(the sixth)
a grandson of the first.
kanzaburo nakamura(the seventh)
the oldest son of the sixth.
kanzaburo nakamura(the eighth)
the second son of the sixth.
former the second denkuro nakamura.
kanzaburo nakamura(the ninth)
an adopted child of the eighth.
former the third shichisaburo nakamura.
kanzaburo nakamura(the 10th)
the husband of the eighth's daughter.
the haimyo(also known as haimei,a kabuki actor's offstage name which can be used officially and privately)was jakudo.
kanzaburo nakamura(the 11th)
the husband of the eighth's daughter.
a child of yaozo ichikawa(the second).
the haimyo was kanshi(観子or冠子in chinese characters).
kanzaburo nakamura(the 12th)
the second son of the 11th.
he called himself the fourth akashi nakamura,the fifth denkuro nakamura and in his last years,the third kanzaburo nakamura as name for retirement.
kanzaburo nakamura(the 13th)
a child of the 12th.
nakazo nakamura(the third)
the husband of the 12th's daughter,nakazo nakamura(the third),succeeded to the professional name.
his haimyo was jakushi,shujaku,maizuru,and shukaku.
kanzaburo nakamura(the 15th)
the son of the 13th,akashi nakamura(the fifth),succeeded to the professional name.
his haimyo was kakudo.
kanzaburo nakamura(the 16th)
katsuko nakamura,a daughter of the fifth akashi nakamura,succeeded to the professional name.
kanzaburo nakamura(the 17th)
the third son of karoku nakamura(the third).
kanzaburo nakamura(the 18th)
the oldest son of the 17th.
