ono no azumahito
ono no azumahito(year of birth unknown-december 7,742)was a warrior during the nara period.
he was a child of kyushiki-daibu(master of the impeachment office)ono no hatayasu.
his kabane(hereditary title)was first ono no kimi and later ono no asomi.
he was in the rank of jusanmi(junior third rank)and the position of sangi(councilor).
in 714,azumahito in the rank of jurokui(junior sixth rank)welcomed the envoy of shilla entering the capital,followed by 170 horse soldiers.
in 719,he received the rank of jugoi(junior fifth rank).
in 724,he received the rank of jugoinojo(junior fifth rank,upper grade).
in 725,he received the rank of jushii(junior fourth rank)and a medal for merit.
in 729,azumahito,who had been appointed to mutsu-no-kuni chinju shogun(commander-in-chief of the defense of mutsu province),proposed to the emperor conferring of an award on those who suppressed warriors.
in 730,he was promoted to jushiinojo(junior fourth rank,upper grade).
in january,737,azumahito,who was in the position of mutsu no azechi(inspector of mutsu)and chinju shogun(commander-in-chief of the defense)and had been managing ezochi(inhabited area of ainu)for a long time,asked permission to straighten the route from mutsu province to dewanoki(the dewa castle)by subduing okachi village.
in response to this,hyobusho(the ministry of military)fujiwara no maro was appointed to jisetsu-taishi(commander-in-chief with a sword representing his full authority),and in may he arrived at the taga-jo castle leading 1,000 horse soldiers from 6 countries in the kanto region.
from march to april,azumahito departed leading 196 elite horse soldiers,499 soldiers from chinjufu(pacification and defense headquarters),5,000 soldiers from mutsu province,and 249 subdued emishi(natives of ezo),went across the ou mountains,and opened the access route to ou by subduing the emishi in okachi village.
in 739,azumahito,who was in the position of mutsu no azechi,chinjufu shogun,and also yamato no kuni kokushi(governor of yamato province),was appointed to sangi(councilor).
in september,740,dazai no sochi(governor-general of the dazai-fu offices)fujiwara no hirotsugu raised an army in kyushu.
azumahito was appointed to jisetsu taishogun(great general with a sword representing his full authority)and ordered to suppress hirotsugu with 17,000 soldiers.
azumahito reached nagato province and commanded imperial envoys saeki no tsunehito and abe no mushimaro to lead the advance forces and sail across the sea,and they captured itabitsu no chin(pacification and defense headquarters in itabitsu)(kiku county,buzen province).
in october,10,000 horse soldiers of the hirotsugu army arrived at itabitsu river and fought against 6,000 soldiers of the imperial army including saeki no tsunehito,and the imperial army defeated the hirotsugu's.
on october 23,the imperial army captured hirotsugu escaping on the sea by ship,and azumahito killed hirotsugu and his brother fujiwara no tsunate on november 1.
(the rebellion of fujiwara no hirotsugu)
in 741,he was promoted from jushiinojo(junior fourth rank,upper grade)to jusanmi(junior third grade)in recognition of his merit in suppressing the rebellion of fujiwara no hirotsugu,and he was appointed to rusu(person representing the master during his absence)of the old capital heijo-kyo since emperor shomu transferred the capital to kuni-kyo.
in 742,he died.
