nagamori okabe
nagamori okabe(1568-december 13,1632)was a busho(japanese military commander)(daimyo(japanese territorial lord))who lived during the sengoku period(period of warring states)(japan)and early edo period.
he was the lord of the shimosa-yamazaki domain in shimosa province,lord of the tanba-kameyama domain in tanba province,lord of the tanba-fukuchiyama domain in tanba province,and the first lord of the ogaki domain in mino province.
he was also the founder of the okabe family in the kishiwada domain.
nagamori okabe was born the eldest son of masatsuna okabe.
his mother was a daughter of noritoki miura(三浦範時).
his principal wife was kiyomune matsudaira's daughter and his second wife was ieyasu tokugawa's adopted daughter(yasumoto matsudaira's daughter).
his children included nobukatsu okabe(eldest son),okitaka okabe(second son),nagamasa okabe(third son),yoshimi okabe(岡部佳深;fourth son),sadanao okabe(sixth son),and five daughters(katsushige nabeshima's second wife,nobunori oda's principal wife,yasuoki kato's principal wife,katataka terazawa's principal wife,and norikatsu okubo's principal wife).
he was awarded the official court rank jugoinoge(junior fifth rank,lower grade)and naizen no sho(chief of the loyal table office).
legend has it that there was a person named 'yasutsuna(or tadatsuna)' who founded the okabe clan before nagamori,but it is not certain whether this refers to nagamori or his elder brother.
he succeeded his deceased father as the head of his family in 1583.
he fought in the battle of komaki and nagakute in the following year and in a battle against masayuki sanada during the attack on ueda-jo castle in shinano province led by mototada torii in 1585.
in 1590,when ieyasu tokugawa was transferred to the kanto region,nagamori was allowed to rule the shimosa-yamazaki domain with an estimated rice yield of 12,000 koku as a reward for his distinguished services as a warrior.
in the battle of sekigahara of 1600,he served to protect kurobane-jo castle in shimotsuke province against the southward advance of the uesugi clan.
in 1609,nagamori was transferred to the tanba-kameyama domain with an increased estimated yield of 32,000 koku(his territory was later increased by 2,000 koku to a total of 40,000 koku).
he rendered outstanding services during the summer siege of osaka and was transferred to the fukuchiyama domain in tanba province with an estimated yield of 50,000 koku.
in 1624,he was again transferred to the mino-ogaki domain with an estimated rice yield of 50,000 koku.
nagamori died on december 13,1632 at the age of 65.
his tomb is in zuigan-ji temple in ibigawa-cho,ibi-gun,gifu prefecture.
he was succeeded by his eldest son nobukatsu.
nagamori was known for his bravery as a warrior and was nicknamed 'okabe the black ogre.'
