shunzo momonoi
shunzo momonoi(1825-december 3,1885)was a swordsman at the end of edo period.
his childhood name was jinsuke.
his first name was naomasa.
shunzo momonoi was the name that had been succeeded for generations at shigakukan training hall and naomasa was the fourth successor to shunzo momonoi.
he was born as the second son of toyoaki tanaka,a feudal retainer of numazu clan,suruga province.
leaving edo in 1838,he became a disciple of naokatsu,the third successor of shunzo momonoi and learned the kyoshin meichi-ryu school.
having been recognized for his talent for swordplay by his master,naomasa was adopted as the husband for the master's daughter.
and in 1841,he became the fourth successor to shunzo momonoi at the young age of 17.
in 1848,he was conferred menkyo-kaiden(full proficiency).
there is an anecdote that indicates shunzo's greatness.
at the end of 1865,shunzo rambled in kyoto with his disciples.
then,he bumped into the members of shinsengumi(a group who guarded kyoto during the end of tokugawa shogunate)and was provoked to a quarrel by saying as follows.
give a way to us or else we will kill you using a blade.'
and,they pulled out his sword.
in response,shunzo said as follows.
i may not look it,but i'm shunzo momonoi who has achieved prominence for my swordcraft.'
if you want,i will take up your quarrel.'
it is said that since they,who were the members of shinsengumi,knew his name,a great swordsman along with yakuro saito and shusaku chiba,they hastily apologized and ran away.
at this moment,shunzo drove them off without drawing his sword.
however,this anecdote is also said to be a story by nobutomo odani.
in 1866,he was appointed by the edo bakufu(japanese feudal government headed by a shogun)to the teacher of swordsmanship at kobusho(a military training institute)and promoted to the shogun's retainer.
in 1867,he was appointed to yugeki-tai todorinami(the corresponding post of a chief of the commando unit).
in the meiji period,he became a shinto priest of konda hachiman-gu shrine in osaka.
in 1885,he died cholera at the age of 61.
shigakukan was considered one of the three great dojo halls(halls used for swordplay training)in edo,together with renpeikan headed by saito and genbukan headed by chiba.
they were described as 'momonoi is the best in the bearing,chiba in the technique,and saito in the power.'
umanosuke ueda,hanbeta takechi of tosa clan's retainer,and sosuke henmi in the short term,were also disciples of shigakukan.
