taira no yoshimune
taira no yoshimune(c.1178-june 13,1185)was a warrior during the late heian period.
he was taira no munemori's second son.
he was called fukushomaru when he was a child.
his official rank was jugoinojo(junior fifth rank,upper grade).
he is also reported to have been nicknamed jigaidayu or jizaidayu.
his name was written either "能宗" or "良宗" in chinese characters.
his childhood name, 'fukushomaru' (meaning "vice commander" in japanese),reflected the wish of his parents that he would someday fight enemies of the imperial court as a vice commander together with his half-brother,taira no kiyomune,who would fight as the commander in chief.
his father,munemori,took great care of yoshimune,raising him all by himself without relinquishing him to the care of a nurse in keeping with yoshimune's mother's will who died soon after his birth.
although he was awarded the rank of jugoinojo(junior fifth rank,upper grade)when he was still an infant,he was discharged from his position after the taira clan was expelled from kyoto in 1183.
when the taira clan perished in the battle of dannoura,he was captured by his enemies along with his father and brothers and was left in the custody of shigefusa kawagoe,to be executed by sword at rokujogawara in kyoto.
he died at the age of 8.
(according to "azuma kagami" (a history book published during the kamakura period),he was six years old when he was executed.)
execution of the vice commander
"the tale of the heike" dedicates a whole chapter to the last days of young yoshimune,emphasizing the tragic aspects of the downfall of the taira clan.
(the following is a summary of the descriptions in "the tale of the heike.")
on may 4(traditional japanese calendar date),just before munemori,yoshimune's father,was sent to kamakura,munemori pleaded with yoshitsune to allow him to see the vice commander(yoshimune)for the first time after he was captured at dannoura.
seeing his father,yoshimune,who had not seen him in a long time,jumped onto his lap,while munemori,gently caressing yoshimune's hair in tears,told him about his deceased mother's dying wish to raise him as her most beloved son.
munemori's story caused everyone,including kiyomune,soldier guards and nurses,to shed tears.
the night closed in,urging them to say farewell to each other,but yoshimune would not leave the place,clinging to his father's arm in tears.
yoshimune's nurse finally took him in her arms,and seeing them leave in a wagon,munemori broke down in tears,lamenting that he had never felt such deep sorrow in his life.
upon receiving an order from yoshitsune to execute the vice commander in kyoto without sending him to kamakura,shigefusa kawagoe,who was in charge of yoshimune,sent him a wagon,telling him that he would be placed in the custody of koreyoshi ogata in kyoto.
seeing the wagon and rejoiced at the thought of seeing his father again,yoshimune jumped into the wagon,but the wagon took him eastward along rokujo street,causing anxiety among his nurses.
not knowing where he was when the wagon arrived at the execution site along the kamo-gawa river and gripped by fear when he saw shigefusa's soldiers preparing for his execution,yoshimune tried to escape them,hiding himself behind one of his nurses.
holding yoshimune in their arms,the nurses burst into tears,arousing immense pity among the soldiers.
after a considerable period of time,shigefusa urged the nurses to hand over yoshimune,telling them that there was no longer any option left.
the soldiers then took away yoshimune from the nurses and decapitated him.
the cruel scene moved even the veteran soldiers to tears.
yoshimune's head was sent to yoshitsune,but his nurses followed barefoot,in order to take it back in order to let his soul rest in peace.
several days after taking back his head,they drowned themselves in the katsura-gawa river,with one of them holding his head and the other holding his body.
in the enkyo version of the tale(transcribed from the original in the early 14th period,during the enkyo era),yoshimune is described as having been executed by being put in a cage and drowned in the katsura-gawa river and the two nurses as having become buddhist nuns.
