masanori kusunoki
masanori kusunoki was busho(japanese military commander)in the period of the northern and southern courts(japan).
he was the third son of masashige kusunoki,a powerful military commander of the southern court.
he was a younger brother of masatsura kusunoki and masatoki kusunoki.
biography
battle for kyoto
when his older brothers,masatsura kusunoki and masatoki kusunoki,were defeated and killed by the army of ko no moronao in the shijonawate war in 1348,masanori took over the family estate to be the head of family,and became a spearhead busho of the southern court(japan).
in the same year,he battled against the army of ko no moroyasu of the northern court(japan)at ishikawa in kawachi province,and in the next year,1349,he also conducted small-scale battles at places in the southern area of kawachi province.
when an internal conflict of the muromachi shogunate(the kanno disturbance)occurred in 1350,masanori,taking advantage of such an internal conflict,made efforts to regain and strengthen the power of the southern court and also conducted activities toward the unification of the southern and northern courts.
in 1352 after the shohei itto(temporal unification of the northern and southern courts),he drove out yoshiakira ashikaga in cooperation with akinobu kitabatake,akitsune chigusa and so on,and regained kyoto after an interval of seventeen years.
however,masanori was defeated at otokoyama hachiman by yoshiakira who had retrieved the power,and was forced to evacuate from kyoto in just over a month.
but,masanori spread warriors to places in kinai region thereafter,and extended his influence over settsu province and kawachi province.
in 1354 when tadafuyu ashikaga came up to kyoto from kyushu as the southern court,masanori battled together with him and regained kyoto again.
however,he was defeated by yoshiakira's counter-attacking,and withdrew.
in 1361,masanori succeeded in the third regaining of kyoto together with kiyoji hosokawa,former steward of the bakufu(japanese feudal government headed by a shogun),who had been overthrown due to political strife in the muromachi shogunate(koan coup)and come to subject to the southern court,and so on,but they had to withdraw the next month.
on the other hand,masanori prodded doyo sasaki and others to realize the incorporation of the northern and southern courts,and in 1367,he tried a reconciliation with the northern court through the assistance of shogunal deputy yoriyuki hosokawa.
however,the reconciliation was not accomplished due to refusal by seii taishogun(literally, "great general who subdues barbarians")yoshiakira.
surrender to the northern court
in the next year,emperor gomurakami who had put his trust in masanori died.
after that,not emperor gokameyama(later emperor gokameyama)who was on the side of reconciliation party,but emperor chokei who was considered to take a firm attitude toward the northern court,ascended the throne,and masanori who was a leader of reconciliation party got isolated in the southern court.
in 1369,masanori submitted to shogun yoshimitsu ashikaga through the assistance of his associate,yoriyuki hosokawa,and surrendered to the northern court.
as a result,he drew criticism from the imperial court of the southern court and the kusunoki family,and was attacked by them.
but,he was saved by a reinforcement dispatched by yoriyuki hosokawa.
his official court rank was approved as sayuemonnokami,and he also took over shugo(provincial constable)of izumi province and kawachi province in the northern court.
return to the southern court
however,the authority of yoriyuki hosokawa within the bakufu began to decline,and a position of masanori relying on yoriyuki was also weakened.
when masanori was dismissed from his post of kawachi shugoshiki(provincial constable of kawachi province)by yoshimitsu in 1378,and yoriyuki lost his position due to the koryaku coup in 1379,masanori got isolated in the northern court this time.
in 1382,he returned to the southern court again,and was appointed as sangi(councillor).
in the next year,emperor chokei on the side of hawk party assigned the throne to emperor gokameyama who was on the side of reconciliation party.
it is recorded that although he participated in the battle at nio-san mountain and raised an army at mitani-jo castle,kii province in 1385,masanori was defeated in the battle against yoshimasa yamana of the northern court.
it is believed that he died in 1389,but,it is also said that he died on the battle field in akasaka on august 22,1391.
it is believed that thereafter,masanori's descendants moved to hiraki in harima province,and have been calling themselves the hiraki clan ever since.
personal profile
in "taiheiki" (the record of the great peace),masanori was bitterly criticized as 'being a little stupid differently from his father masashige and his old brother masatsura,' but this might show another aspect that he was discreet and avoided hopeless battles.
although he frequently battled over kyoto throughout his lifetime,masanori is considered to have been critical of theory of urgent regaining of kyoto proposed by court nobles of the southern court.
in the early-modern times,nancho shikan(southern dynasty hero-centered historiography)focusing on mitogaku(the scholarship and academic traditions that arose in the mito domain)had a description of suspecting the masanori's surrender to the northern court.
sanyo rai who also advocated nancho seitoron(theory of southern dynasty legitimism)described both theories in "nihon gaishi" (historical book on japan).
among busho of his generation of the southern court,masanori was the most excellent tactician,and frequently showed good fights like halting and throwing back a large army of the northern court including the army of ko no moroyasu with his small-scale army under the outperformed circumstances.
on the other hand,masanori also had a humanitarian side like giving clothing and medicines to captives and releasing them.
the taiheiki also includes stories such as an anecdote about a battle over a residence against doyo sasaki of the northern court at the time of occupying kyoto.
