fujiwara no kinsue
fujiwara no kinsue(born in 956,birth date unknown-december 1,1029)was a kugyo(court noble)who lived during the heian period.
he was the tenth son of u-daijin(minister of the right)fujiwara no morosuke,who belonged to sekkan-ryu(the sekkan branch)of the northern house of the fujiwara clan.
fujiwara no koretada,fujiwara no kanemichi,fujiwara no kaneie,and fujiwara no tamemitsu(all of whom were appointed dajo-daijin(chancellor of the realm),and all but tamemitsu were further appointed to sekkan)were his older brothers,and fujiwara no anshi,the empress of emperor murakami,was his older sister.
his mother was imperial princess yasuko,who was the legitimate older sister of emperor murakami,and as a young child he was raised in the imperial palace,since his mother died shortly after his birth.
it is said that emperor enyu was greatly disappointed that kinsue acted as if he were a prince.
kinsue was also known as kanin daijin(minister),since he inherited and lived in kanin-dono(kanin palace),the former residence of fujiwara no futsugu,and so kinsue's descendants were said to belong to the kanin-ryu.
kinsue served as nai-daijin(minister of the center)during the reigns of both emperors ichijo and sanjo,and attempted kokyu-fuseki(sending female family members to live in the kokyu palace)by making his daughter fujiwara no gishi become kokiden no nyogo(empress kokiden)of emperor ichijo,but this plan failed,as no princesses were born.
during the reign of emperor goichijo,as an old vassal he was promoted to dajo-daijin in 1021 and granted the shoichii rank(senior first rank)posthumously.
kinsue's legitimate grandchild fujiwara no kinnari,who was particularly favored by kinsue in his last years,was promoted only up to chu-nagon(middle counselor)while kinsue was alive,but after his death,kinnari's daughter fujiwara no moshi(adopted daughter of fujiwara no yoshinobu)gave birth to a prince who later became emperor shirakawa;this event brought luck to the clan,resulting in unexpected completion of the plan that kinnari's grandfather,kinsue,could not complete.
from this point on,during the period of the cloistered government,females of the kanin family dominated the kokyu,and in the end,there were 25 dojo families(court noble families which have a hereditary right to be admitted to the court)in this family line,including the sanjo,saionji,and tokudaiji families,which were separated by three children of dai-nagon fujiwara no kinzane,the grandchild of kinnari(the 5th generation down from kinsue).
brief personal history
in 967,he reached the age of maturity and was appointed ji-ju(chamberlain).
in 967,he was appointed sa-chujo(lieutenant general of the left office of the imperial guards)and also bizen no kami(the governor of bizen province).
in 981,he was appointed to the jusanmi rank(junior third rank).
in 983,he was appointed sangi(director of palace affairs).
in 986,he was appointed gon-chu-nagon(deputy middle counselor).
in 989,he was appointed togu-daifu(lord steward to the imperial prince).
in 991,he was appointed chu-nagon at the shosanmi rank.
in 995,he was appointed dai-nagon(major counselor).
in 996,he was appointed sa-konoe-daisho(general of the left office of the imperial guards).
in 997,he was appointed nai-daijin(minister of the center).
in 1017,he was appointed u-daijin and at the same time became kotaite-den(chief secretary of the younger brother and heir apparent of an emperor).
in 1021,he was appointed dajo-daijin.
on december 1,1029,he died.
he was promoted to the shoichii rank as a posthumous honor.
he was given the title kai-ko(lord of kai province)and was granted the posthumous name jingi-ko(lord of humanity and justice).
