tsunemori kikkawa
tsunemori kikkawa(1290-1358)was a bushi(samurai)of the nanbokucho period(the period of the northern and southern courts).
his father was tsunetaka kikkawa.
he had a son named tsuneaki kikkawa.
his lawful wife was a daughter of tsuneshige kikkawa.
in 1319,he succeeded the inheritance of his family in accordance with his father's retirement.
in 1333 when the kamakura bakufu(japanese feudal government headed by a shogun)was ruined,the kenmu restoration where the political center was the emperor began.
however,the direct administration of emperor godaigo failed and his administration was ruined because he adopted a package of anachronistic measures in sequence.
in the turmoil after the collapse of the administration,in 1335,tsunemori kikkawa was,for example,subjected to the shugo(provincial constable),nobutake takeda and attacked the yano-jo castle of rengaku kumagai who was on the side of the southern court.
he also worked for tadayoshi ashikaga and fought the warlords of iwami province on the southern court side.
amid the mayhem of the conflicts between the northern and the southern courts,a cousin of tsunemori kikkawa,tsunekane kikkawa and his son,tsunemi kikkawa became allegiant to the southern court.
when the kanno disturbance broke out,they took sides with tadayoshi ashikaga and did not follow tsunemori kikkawa who took sides with takauji ashikaga.
the father and son of tsunekane and tsunemi were designated to gonnokami of suruga province and saemon no jo(third-ranked officer of the left division of outer palace guards)respectively due to the deserters at the battles by the emperor gomurakami of the southern court.
the younger brother of tsunemori kikkawa,tsunenaga kikkawa also joined the side of the southern court and appeared at mt.senjo,hoki province with the order of emperor godaigo.
his son sanetsune also participated in the punitive force with the migyosho(document for informing of decisions made by third or upper ranked authorities)of yoshisada nitta against the defeated army of takauji ashikaga who escaped to kyushu.
while tsunemori had concerns about the selfish behavior of members of the clan,he gave away the reigns of the family to his legitimate heir,tsuneaki kikkawa in 1350,and died of disease in 1358.
with the rivalry amongst the clan,the kikkawa clan had lost its strength.
