kiyoka sakurai
kiyoka sakurai(august 7,1895 to 1969,male)was an artist(painter).
his hometown was nagoya city.
he became famous because of his making of the showa fukugen mosha(restoration duplicate)of "genji monogatari emaki" (the illustrated handscroll of the tale of genji).
his father was takeyasushinojo sakurai,his mother was miho,and he was their second son.
his elder brother was kaoru sakurai,and his younger brother was ryozo sakurai.
life
in march,1914,he was graduated from the fifth aichi prefectural junior high school under the old system.
in august,1915,he studied japanese style painting under the japanese painter gyokuho niwa(a disciple of the gyokudo kawai).
thereafter,he established himself in the field of japanese style painting.
in march,1920,he spent one year and six months in completing the rice riot picture scroll(a scroll that summarizes the happenings in nagoya during the rice riot that occurred in 1918).
the tokugawa art museum was opened in 1935.
since then,he sometimes appeared at the museum for the purpose of duplicating.
in march,1945,he became penniless due to the war damage.
during the four years from april 1 of the same year,he worked for the nagoya branch of yasuda mutual life insurance corporation.
since april 1,1950,he started working for the tokugawa art museum as a full time staff.
on november 25,1954,he was awarded the qualification of a scholar of humanity science by the ministry of education.
from 1958 to 1963,he completed the showa fukugen mosha(restoration duplicate)of "genji monogatari emaki" (the illustrated handscroll of the tale of genji).
painting
a lot of his other works were collected in tokugawa art museum.
writing
june,1940, "study of picture scrolls of war chronicles",japan research center of documentary records materials.
february,1951, "mongol invasion of japan and takasaki suenaga ekotoba",tokugawa art museum.
march,1952, "genji monogatari emaki' (the illustrated handscroll of the tale of genji),tokugawa art museum.
1969, "japanese pictures and war chronicles",mokujisha.
genealogy
though the sakurai family introduced themselves originally as tachibana(a clan related to the tachibana's blood),somewhere down the line they were renamed sakurai.
the name is considered to have been changed around the period of sakurai sakuno uemon no suketake(it is unknown why the name was changed).
