tokuhime
tokuhime(december 13,1565-march 3,1615)was a women from the azuchi-momoyama period to the early edo period.
the second daughter of ieyasu tokugawa.
her mother was a concubine,lady nishigori no tsubone.
an older paternal half-sister of hidetada tokugawa.
ofu(於普宇),tomiko,harima no kuni gozen,ryoshoin.
she was born in the mikawa province.
since nobunaga oda died in the honnoji incident in 1582,there was no lord in the kai province and shinano province and ieyasu had a territorial dispute concerning the koshin region with ujinao hojo.
since the tokugawa clan and the gohojo clan had almost the same military potential in those days,they thought that if they fought,they would have suffered serious damage and decided to bury the hatchet by seeking reconciliation.
she got married to ujinao as the lawful wife at the age of 19 as a condition for the reconciliation.
the hojo clan fell in the conquest and siege of odawara by hideyoshi toyotomi in 1590.
ujinao was saved from hideyoshi by the plea of ieyasu,a father-in-law,for sparing his life,and exiled to mt.koya.
she later stayed with ujinao who was exiled,but since he died the next year,she returned to ieyasu.
in 1594,she got remarried to terumasa ikeda with the help of hideyoshi(matchmaker).
she was on good terms with terumasa and had five sons and two daughters,such as tadatsugu ikeda,tadao ikeda,teruzumi ikeda,masatsuna ikeda,teruoki ikeda,and koshoin.
although being a tozama(outside feudal lord),he was permitted to use the surname of matsudaira clan and formed foundations for prosperity of the ikeda clan.
she died in himeji-jo castle after the death of terumasa.
died at the age of 51.
poisoned manju(steamed yeast bun with filling)incident
both tokuhime and terumasa ikeda were remarried and he had the oldest son toshitaka ikeda from the previous wife who was a daughter of kiyohide nakagawa.
tokuhime attempted to kill the son-in-law,toshitaka,by giving him a poisoned manju to make her biological child tadatsugu an heir.
however,toshitaka noticed the attempt from secret information from a maid and worried about how to deal with it.
there is a rumor that tadatsugu ate the poisoned manju and died without knowing the attempt and tokuhime killed herself in grief.
the historical fact is unknown,but it was true that tadatsugu died young and tokuhime also died in the same year(but in fact,tokuhime died 19 days earlier than tadatsugu).
it is supposed that such a gossip was born because the lineage of tadatsugu(tottori domain)was on bad terms with that of toshitaka(okayama domain).
according to one account,however,toshitaka and tadatsugu were intimate brothers.
