joken nishikawa
joken nishikawa(1648-november 9,1724)was an astronomer in the middle of the edo period.
his father tadayoshi nishikawa was also an astronomer.
his mother was a daughter of sorin ishiyama.
he was born in nagasaki,hizen province.
his real name was tadahide,and common name was jiroemon.
he also signed his name joken(如見)as恕軒and恕見(the pronunciation were the same).
he also called himself after the names of his residences or his studies kyurin-sai,kinbai-an,and enbai-ken.
brief personal history
after learning chinese and japanese classics from soju nanbu and astronomical calendar calculations from yoshinobu kobayashi,a disciple of kichiemon hayashi,joken retired in 1697 to devote himself to studies.
he was famous for his books about astronomy and geography,and studied mainly chinese astronomy while deeply understanding the features of european astronomy;and in 1718 he went to edo,in 1719 he answered the inquiries on astronomy from shogun yoshimune tokugawa;after that,he stayed for some time in edo and returned to nagasaki.
he died in 1724.
he died at the age of 77.
his son masayoshi nishikawa was appointed tenmon-kata(officer in charge of astronomy,topography,survey and translation)in 1746 or at the change of the era to horeki(year 1751 when yoshimune died)(according to the data from wikipedia, 'tenmonkata'＝>'families of tenmonkata'＝>'the nishikawa family,' it was 'in 1746').
his tomb is at chosho-ji temple shozan in nagasaki.
his books
kai tsusho-ko(study on chinese and european commerce)
kai tsusho-ko tengi-ron(study on chinese and european commerce,about their astronomy)
ryobi-shusetsu,kyodo rekidan(studies on yin and yang of the universe[moon and sun],textbook of astronomy)
unki shinan-yaku,kohen(guide book on flow of the universe,the second volume)
chonin bukuro(merchant's wisdom)
chonin-soko-barai(moral book for merchant)
hyakusho bukuro(farmer's wisdom)
nagasaki yawaso(geography of nagasaki)
nippon suido-ko(study on water and land of japan)
suido kaiben(comment on water and land of japan)
