junan nakagawa
junan nakagawa(1739-july 2,1786)was a doctor,herbalist and rangakusha(a person who studied western sciences by means of the dutch language)active in the middle of the edo period.
initially,junan淳庵was written as junan純安(it can be also pronounced sumiyasu).
his real name was rin or genrin.
after grew up,he called himself hankei.
he served the obama clan of wakasa province as a doctor,especially as ranpoi(a doctor who studied western medicine by means of the dutch language);genpaku sugita is known very well as an older ranpoi.
junan cooperated with ryotaku maeno and genpaku sugita to translate "kaitai shinsho" (new book of anatomy).
he was endowed with great interest in learning and forwardness,and played an important role to develop the western medical science in japan through cooperating with many scientists and doctors.
biography
originally,junan's grandfather began to serve the obama clan as ranpoi.
junan resided in kojimachi(the district for the residences of local statesmen)of edo(present tokyo).
he learned dutch from a doctor of yamagata domain,kiseki yasutomi,and learned herbalism from ransui tamura.
in 1764,he assisted gennai hiraga in inventing kakanpu(asbestous cloth).
he was very interested in dutch things and often visited nagasaki-ya(its famous master's name was genemon)where kapitan(the curators of the dutch trading house of nagasaki)were often staying.
in 1771,he participated in the translation of "kaitai shinsho" as well as genpaku sugita and others.
even after finished the translation,he kept learning dutch;in 1776,he met a doctor of the dutch trading house of nagasaki,carl thunberg,and learned herbalism and other things from him.
in 1778,he was appointed to okuishi(doctor for lord and lord's family)of the wakasa clan;in 1786,he died from kaku(an illness by which the patient can't take any food).
his achievement as an herbalist
since he was young,he had been interested in herbalism and learned it from ransui tamura.
in 1757,he participated in a seminar on materials at tamura school.
in 1763,he checked and corrected gennai hiraga's "butsurui hinshitsu" (classification of various materials).
it is said that he assisted gennai in inventing kakanpu(asbestous cloth)in 1764 and kandankei(thermometer)in 1765.
the friendship between gennai hiraga and genpaku sugita is known well,and junan might have kept a longer friendship with gennai.
in 1776 when a naturalist and doctor thunberg came to edo,junan learned not only medical science but also a method for making specimens of vegetable from him.
his achievements as a rangakusha(a person who studied western sciences by means of the dutch language)
before "kaitai shinsho" (new book of anatomy)
junan learned dutch from kiseki yasutomi who was living in kojimachi too,through corresponding dutch pronunciations to iroha shijushichi-moji(forty-seven japanese syllables).
he also often visited nagasaki-ya where kapitan(the curators of the dutch trading house of nagasaki)were staying.
translation of "kaitai shinsho"
in 1771,junan assisted genpaku sugita in getting "ontleedkundige tafelen",a book of anatomy written by kulmus.
within the same year,he participated in an anatomy at kozukahara-keijo execution ground,and since the next day,he began to translate the book with ryotaku maeno and genpaku sugita.
according to "kaitai shinsho",junan had other books of anatomy written by barfein and by barsitos.
in january of 1773(in old lunar calendar),they published "kaitai yakuzu" (summary and figures of anatomy),and junan's name was written as a proofreader.
in august of 1774(in old lunar calendar),they finally published "kaitai shinsho",and junan's name was written as a proofreader as well.
after "kaitai shinsho"
even after published "kaitai shinsho",junan kept learning dutch from ryotaku maeno.
in 1776,he and hoshu katsuragawa visited thunberg who was staying in edo.
he learned medical science and natural history from him.
there remains thunberg's remark about junan,and according to it,junan spoke dutch very well.
there also remains junan's letter to a curator of the dutch trading house of nagasaki,isaac titsingh,written in an elegant running hand.
however,according to katsumi iwasaki(the writer of "maeno ranka"),junan was not good at using cases and conjugations correctly.
not only junan but also the next generation such as gentaku otsuki couldn't perfectly understand cases and conjugations of dutch.
in the letter to the curator,junan signed as "nakagawa sjunnan."
he prepared or began to translate "waran kyokuho" (dutch formulary), "waran yakufu" (dutch herbalism)and "goeki seiyo" (clarification of five liquid of body);however,before finished them,he died.
his influence
thunberg wrote about junan in his itinerary of japan(called "nihon ryoko-ki" in japan);therefore,junan became known in europe.
in 1793,kodayu daikokuya,who had drifted and stayed in russia,returned to japan and told that during staying in russia he had heard the names of junan nakagawa and hoshu katsuragawa.
gentaku otsuki,in the evening of his life,told that he had been feeling gratitude for especially junan's favor.
presumably,gentaku had learned medical science or dutch from junan who had been one of ancestors of the new science of japan.
