toshinobu oda
toshinobu oda was busho(a japanese military commander)in the sengoku period(period of warring states).
according to "kansei choshu shokafu" (genealogies of vassals in edo bakufu),he was a legitimate son of toshisada oda of 'the oda yamato no kami family' (the kiyosu oda clan)that was shugodai(the acting military governor)of four domains in owari.
it is said that he was the father of nobuyasu oda,the lord of iwakura-jo castle in owari.
his origin,however,is unclear and uncertain.
it is said that he was the father of sukenobu oda,the founder of 'the oda danjo no jo family' (the shobata oda clan)that was a family of three magistrates of kiyosu since he took the homyo(name given to a person who enters the buddhist priesthood)of 'seigan' and addressed himself as the rank of bingo no kuni no kami(governor of bingo province),but there is a view that sukenobu and toshinobu are same person.
career
soon after the fall of 'the oda ise no kami family' (the iwakura oda clan)losing support from the saito clan,the name of toshinobu was mentioned as the lord of iwakura-jo castle in literatures such as "bukoyawa."
in september 8,1485,shukyu banri,a poet in the muromachi period stopped at toshinobu's residence in kiyosu-jo castle in kasugai county,owari province on his way to visit dokan ota in edo-jo castle and wrote a poem,watching inuoumono(dog-hunting event)with toshinobu's permission.
in 1491,joining his lord,yoshihiro shiba,owari no kuni shugo(provincial constable of owari province),toshinobu went on an expedition to sakamoto in omi province(otsu city)to conquer takayori rokkaku(chokyo-entoku wars)together with toshisada oda of 'the oda yamato no kami family' who is said to be his father.
in 1493,joining the shugo,yoshihiro again to go up to kyoto,toshinobu stayed in kyoto and took an active part in various places("inryoken nichiroku" [inryoken's diary]).
his buddhist mortuary tablet in the ryotan-ji temple in iwakura city says toshinobu died in february 26,1517,but "bukoyawa" says that he died in the battle of funada in 1495.
it is said that his daughter later became a concubine of nobuhide oda,a brave man nicknamed "owari no tora" (tiger of owari).
