meika uno
meika uno(june 27,1698-may 15,1745)was a japanese confucian scholar in the middle of the edo period.
his name was kanae,his azana(chinese courtesy name formerly given to adult chinese men,used in place of their given name in formal situations;japanese scholars and the literati adopted this custom of courtesy name)was shishin,and popular name was sanpei.
he named himself in chinese-style as u shishin.
he and his younger brother shiro uno were called as heian ni u sensei(two u teachers in heian).
brief personal history
he was born in yasu,omi province(present yasu city,shiga prefecture)but his family moved to kyoto as his father yasuharu was serving suminokura family,a wealthy merchant in saga(kyoto city),and working as unso(a work that carries freights on a ship).
at first,meika studied under sansei mukai,a disciple of junan kinoshita.
however,meika,who learnt kobunjigaku(study of ancient rhetoric school)through jakusui irie but was physically weak,sent his younger brother shiro to edo to study it there in pace of himself under sorai ogyu.
meika himself remained in kyoto and studied chinese and kobunjigaku under genko daicho.
his younger brother shiro returned to kyoto after only a year.
this was because meika could not agree with sorai's educational policy and moreover,he judged that there would be nobody to inherit soraigaku(study preached by sorai)in kobunjigaku.
especially meika bitterly criticized nankaku hattori and kinka hirano.
meika spent ten-odd years at home,carefully reading ancient books and documents,to devote himself to studies.
later,he established his own field of study,parting from sorai,and started to bitterly criticize kenengakuha(a confucian school sect of sorai ogyu and his disciples).
he had close friendship with taikan tanaka,a scholar who died young,through scholarship and he wrote an epitaph for taikan's grave.
shundai dazai criticized meika as not showing any interest in the politics that sorai sought to realize.
he remained single all his life.
he died at age of 48.
he was buried in iwashimizu hachimangu shrine in kyoto.
books
"rongoko" (consideration for rongo(analects of confucius))(six-volume book)
in each chapter of rongo analects,he included his own view followed by views of chu his,jinsai ito and sorai ogyu with his criticisms against them.
"sadenko" (three-volume book)
his disciple hokkai katayama edited and published literary remains after the death of meika.
the book was rated very highly as a book report of chunqiu zuoshi zhuan(master zuo's commentary to the spring and autumns).
kinjo oota wrote "sandenkoho" (supplement to sandenko)to supplement the book.
"meika sensei ikoshu" (collection of literary remains of meika)(eight volumes in five books,1748)
his disciple kenjo daiten edited and published literary remains after the death of meika.
"shigokai" (dictionary for words used in poems)(1763)
"bungokai" (a book explaining structure of sentenses)(1772)
"shikasuiko" (wordsmithing for poets)(1799)
although the above three books are generally known as works of kenjo daiten,the fact is that meika drafted the contents and daiten compiled and published them as books.
"meikoshijohyo" taikan tanaka wrote the preface.
