munehide matsudaira
munehide matsudaira,or munehide honjo(october 21,1809-december 20,1873)was a feudal lord,and roju(the highest ranking government official)in the end of edo era.
the sixth lord of miyazu domain,tango province.
the sixth lord of miyazu domain,tango province.
he was the third son of munetada matsudaira who was the fourth lord of domain.
his legal wife was a daughter of noriyasu matsudaira,his second wife was a daughter of tadazane okubo,his third wife was a daughter of terunobu matsudaira.
his sons were tadakuni makino(his fourth son,adopted son to the makino family in nagaoka domain of echigo province),munetake matsudaira(his fifth son),kokan kuchiki(his seventh son,adopted son to the viscount kuchiki family in former fukuchiyama domain),his daughter was tomooki tomita's wife.
his childhood name was hidejiro.
his official career was jushiinoge(junior fourth rank,lower grade),jiju(chamberlain),zusho no kami(chief of the bureau of books and drawings),tanba no kuni no kami(provincial governor of tanba),hoki no kuni no kami(provincial governor of hoki).
biography
when his father munetada died,munehide was an infant and his uncle muneakira matsudaira inherited the miyazu domain after which muneakira inherited it.
he carried out the ansei no taigoku(ansei purge)as jisha bugyo(magistrate of temples)under tario(chief minister)naosuke ii,then became osaka jodai(deputy castellan of osaka castle).
thus,when he was appointed as kyoto shoshidai(local governor of kyoto)after being osaka jodai,the imperial court centered around shigetomi ohara was against munehide because of his role in conducting the ansei purge.
and also,the lord of aizu domain katamori matsudaira who was on the side of bakufu was against him.
therefore,even though munehide was appointed as the kyoto shoshidai,he couldn't take the new post and two months later he was replaced.
instead,he was conferred tamarizume kaku(the highest rank of the government),and got the highest rank of fudai daimyo(hereditary feudal lord),but he was stripped of his rank as punishment for the ansei purge 15 months later.
after that,munehide became the roju(elder councilor)and in the event of the second conquest of choshu in 1866,went to battle in hiroshima,aki province and conducted the bakufu's army.
he realized that continuing the battle was disadvantageous and tried to release captives shishido and odamura on his own,who were the chief retainers of the choshu domain and attempted to create an advantageous peace pact.
however,his plot was found out and he was dismissed from the roju and confined to his house.
he ceded the family estate to his fifth son munetake.
after the meiji restoration,he served for the new government and worked as the daiguji(the supreme priest)of ise-jingu shrine.
he died in 1874 at the age of 65.
brief personal history
he was born in 1809.
on november 27,1840,he inherited the family estate.
in 1842,appointed as sojaban(officer who conducted a ceremony).
in 1844,dismissed sojaban.
in 1846,reappointed as sojaban.
on november 14,1858,appointed as jisha bugyo concurrently.
on february 5,1861,he was dismissed sojaban and jisha bugy and,on february 7,he was appointed as osaka jodai(deputy castellan of osaka castle).
on july 26,1862,he was dismissed osaka jodai and was appointed as kyoto shoshidai,but,on september 17,he was dismissed kyoto shoshidai and conferred tamarizume kaku.
on january 2,1864,he was demoted from tamarizume kaku to shikoseki(common room)rank.
on september 18,1864,appointed as roju.
on september 3,1866,he was dismissed from the roju and was confined to his house.
he died on december 20,1873.
burial place
temple grounds on tenjin(yorozu-machi,miyazu city,kyoto prefecture).
daicho-ji temple(kanayadani,miyazu city,kyoto prefecture)
