takakage asakura(the 10th head of the asakura family)
takakage asakura was a busho(japanese military commander)in the sengoku(warring states)period and warlord in echizen province.
he called himself 'takakage',after his great-grandfather,the 7th head of the asakura family.
today,to distinguish him from his great-grandfather he is called sojun takakage(or onuki takakage)which comes from his posthumous buddhist name.
he was the 10th head of the asakura family.
he was the son of sadakage asakura,the 9th head of the family.
he was father to yoshikage asakura.
his mother was the daughter of toshikuni saito,shugodai(deputy military governor)of mino province.
his younger sister married yoritake toki,shugo(military governor)of mino province,and had a legitimate son yorizumi toki.
brief personal history
getting assistance from family member soteki asakura,takakage is said to have repeatedly sent troops to invade neighbouring provinces such as kaga,mino,omi,and wakasa,which were often in chaos,and there displayed his military superiority and political influence over shugoka(provincial landowning families)and other movements,finally achieving reconciliation with followers of ikko sect who had been opposed to and staged uprisings against the asakura family for generations.
although the asakura family was constantly concerned by the situation in the capital and neighbouring provinces,they eventually extended their influence,deepened ties with the imperial court and muromachi shogunate,brought prosperity to echizen province,and nurtured the growth of kyoto-style culture in their base,ichijodani-jo castle.
in military affairs,there were many cases of a major family member being dispatched as myodai(a substitute)to combat areas instead of the family head.
this system would also remain effective during the reign of the next head of the family,yoshikage asakura.
in terms of governance,takakage could not completely subordinate various power groups called kokujin-shu,which were on equal footing with the asakura family under the shugo(provincial military governor),the shiba clan.
in addition,there was an internal conflict when takakage was in oppostiion to his younger brother,kagetaka asakura.
in the economic field,the prosperity of the ichijodani was seen from the many case of dispatching large forces to neighbouring provinces to large donations to the imperial court and bakufu(japanese feudal government).
in addition,prosperity was also evident in the fact that wealthy merchants possessed special tea utensils and vassals purchased books from kyoto.
timeline
in march 1512,his father sadakage asakura(the 9th head of the family)died suddenly during a falconry expedition.
takakage took over as the head of the family.
in 1516,yoshitane ashikaga,the shogun of the muromachi bakufu permitted takakage asakura to use the privileged items shirokasabukuro(a white umbrella cover)and mosenkuraoi(a tufted saddle cover).
in 1517,following bakufu orders,takakage dispached troops to wakasa and tango provinces where soteki asakura was acting as a military commissioner.
he helped the takeda clan,(shugo[military governor]of wakasa province)and suppressed the rebellion staged by the henmi clan of wakasa and shugodai(deputy military governor)of tango.
in 1518,toshinaga saito,having been beaten in the neighbouring province of mino in a conflict with the shugo,the toki clan,went into exile in echizen province taking yoritake toki of the shugo family with him.
(takakage's mother was from the saito clan.)
in august 1519,takakage departed for the front line in mino province,where he gave his younger brother kagetaka control of 3,000 soldiers.
winning two consecutive battles in masaki on october 17,and in池戸on november 12,he managed to bring toshinaga saito and yoritake toki back to mino province.
in 1525,he departed for odani-jo castle in omi province,giving soteki asakura control of the troops.
he restrained the azai clan who had got involved in an skirmish in mino province in alliance with the rokkaku clan.
after that,he reconciled the rokkaku and azai clans(lead by sukemasa azai).
troops led by kagemoto asakura departed for mino province,and advanced to mt.inaba.
in november 1527,at the request of muromachi shogun yoshiharu ashikaga,who had been driven out of kyoto and was staying in omi province,takakage dispatched a troop of 10 thousand soldiers under the contorl of soteki asakura and the maeba clan.
this troop joined the kanrei(shogunal deputy)takakuni hosokawa,and advanced into the capital on november 16.
on november 27,the troop engaged in battle across the katsura-gawa river against the miyoshi forces and others who were in control of the captital.
his troops successfully fought off a series of counterattacks,and kyoto was put under the control of the shogun family,the hosokawa family and the asakura family.
in the same year,he appointed his younger brother kagetaka asakura as gunji(district manager)of echizen-ono.
he also staged a rebellion against mototaka awaya and the shugo takeda clan in wakasa province.
takakage planned to break into wakasa province by joining forces and carrying out operations with his vassals and also with nobutaka takeda,who had taken refuge with the asakura family.
in 1528,takakage became a member of the otomoshu(attendant group)of the muromachi shogun yoshiharu ashikaga.
in march,the whole asakura army withdrew from kyoto.
it is said the reason for this withdrawal was a confrontation with the kanrei(shogunal deputy)takakuni hosokawa.
in may,1528,kanrei takakuni hosokawa,with whom takakge had a confrontation the previous year,voluntarily left the capital to go down to ichijodani.
although takakage was requested to dispatch troops to kyoto,he chose to refuse.
after an internal conflict(the kyoroku disturbance)in 1531 among followers of the ikko sect,who had previosuly staged an uprising in kaga,takakage dispatched soteki asakura quell the group.
the asakura army advanced to the vicinity of tetori-gawa river.
soteki asakura handed over the position of tsuruga district manager to his adopted son kagetoshi asakura(younger brother of takakage).
in january 1533,a secret agreement,promising to be valid 'forever',was signed between the rokkaku and asakura clans.
peace negotiations with the ikko sect were completed.
in 1533,when takakage was 41,his first child yoshikage asakura was born.
in 1535,takakage was permitted to use the nurigoshi(lacquered litter).
in 1536,takakage became involved in a conflict between yoritake toki and yorinari toki over the position of shugoshiki(military governor),and captured kagetaka asakura's anama-jo castle in ono-gun.
in 1538,he became a member of the sobanshu(a group of officials who accompany the shogun).
in december,takakage presented 10,000 hiki(110,000,000 yen)to the imperial court when emperor gonara ascended the throne.
in september 1540,kagetaka asakura went to the capital.
kagetaka tried to plot a movement against takakage asakura,using his connections with influential people in the bakufu and court,but did not succeed.
takakage having made a donation of 100 kanmon to the imperial court for repairs to the imperial palace,and of 50 kanmon to shogun's family,requested the bakufu to banish kagetaka from kyoto.
in ocbober,kagetaka was banished from the capital kyoto.
he was under the protection of the wakasa-takeda clan.
even after this,kagetaka still tried to plot an anti-takakage movement by recruited the help of hongan-ji temple,the followers of ikko sect in kaga,the takeda clan of wakasa province,and the shiba clan of owari province.
in may 1543,after his demand for an alliance with hongan-ji temple was rejected,kagetaka withdrew from wakasa province.
he escaped to saigoku(a western region of japan.)
in 1544,in order to get yorizumi toki(the legitimate son of yoritake toki),who had escaped into echizen province,appointed as shugo(governor)of mino province,takakage enlisted the help of nobuhide oda from owari province and attacked dosan saito and yorinari toki of mino province,then proceeded to burn down the town surrounding inokuchi-jo castle(inabayama-jo castle).
in april 1548,takakage died suddenly on his way back from a temple visit.
he was 55 years old.
the prosperity of ichijodani
at that time,echizen province was relatively calm(compared with neighbouring provinces)under the control of the asakura clan even though japan(especially around kinai region)was in a constant state of civil war.
many aristocrats and cultured people,who evacuated the capital,relied on the asakura clan and went to stay in iichijodani.
also,during that time,the asakura clan improved not only its military power but also its social status because of accomplishments such as dispatching soldiers to kyoto,making contact with the shogun family,and receiving hospitable treatment from them,all evidence of their real power.
meanwhile,kyoto-style culture and methods of social intercourse were incorporated into ichijodani and prevailed among ordinary people.
takakage was also praised in terms of literary and military arts.
gesshu jukei said of him, 'takakage's reign continues peacefully;he teaches the art of war to commanders with dignity and composes poems which are highly appreciated.
春沢永恩said, 'takakage is a governor-general of refined taste who excels not only in martial arts but also in literary arts.'
it is well known that takakage had a taste for and appreciated the culture of kyoto,from the fact he used to learn kemari(a japanese ancient imperial court game like kick-ball)from the asukai school,and asked for criticism of his waka(japanese poetry)from sanetaka sanjonishi.
it is reported that his vassals were also fond of kyoto culture,not purely martial arts.
in addition,takakage invited medical scientists such as ippaku tanino,半井見孝,akitaka nakarai,丹波親孝in an active effort to absorb knowledge about medical science.
an annotated edition of the ming medical book 'hachijuichinankyo' was published in ichijodani,using the wood block printing technique.
the following aristocrats and cultured people visited or were invited to ichijodani at the time.
(confucianists)nobukata kiyohara,shigekata kiyohara,菅原章長,菅原長淳
(waka poet)tamekazu reizei.
(kemari expert)masatsuna asukai
(shinto expert)kanemigi yoshida
(court nobles)fusafuyu ichijo,haruyoshi nijo,kinyori sanjo,suetoo yotsutsuji,mitsuyasu karasumaru,haruhide kajuji,motonaga kanroji and so on.
