oe no koretoki
oe no koretoki(888-july 5,963)was a noble and scholar who lived in the heian period.
he was the third son of oe no chifuru.
he was also well known as a scholar and served as a jidoku(emperor's tutor)for the emperor daigo,the emperor suzaku and the emperor murakami.
he edited nikkan shu(collection of japanese views)and senzai kaku(splendid verses of a thousand years).
he visited tang to learn and study the chinese art of warfare 'sanryaku' (three strategies of huang shi gong)and wrote a book describing it across 120 volumes which were named 'kunetsushu.'
it is also said that he might be the author of "tosenkyo" which is said to be the oldest book of warfare in japan.
he had a splendid memory and it seems that he memorized the year other people died as well as changes in mansion title for other people.
career as an offical
date used is based on lunar calendar.
in 916,he bacame a monjosho(student of literary studies in the imperial university).
january 918.
he assumed the position of mino no jo(secretary of mino province).
on june 20,921,he assumed the position of a kurodo(chamberlain).
at that time,he was a monjo tokugosho(distinguished scholar of letters)and mino no daijo(senior secretary of mino province).
on january 30,922,he also assumed the position of omi no gon no shojo(provisional junior secretary of omi province).
he resigned from mino no daijo.
on february 1,924,he transferred to the position of shikibu shojo(junior secretary of the ministry of ceremonial).
in january 925,he transferred to the position of shikibu taijo(senior secretary of the ministry of ceremonial).
on january 7,928,he was ranked at jugoinoge(junior fifth rank,lower grade).
on january 19,he was admitted to the court.
on january 29,he assumed the position of daigaku no suke(assistant director of the bureau of education).
on september 23,929,he also assumed the position of monjo hakase(professor of literature).
on march 12,931,he also assumed the position of bingo no suke(assistant governor of bingo province).
on july 3,he was admitted to the court.
on october 24,933,he also assumed the position of kii no gon no suke(provisional assistant governor of kii province).
he resigned from kii no gon no suke.
on january 7,934,he was promoted to jugoinojo(junior fifth rank,upper grade)and he retained his positions as daigaku no suke,monjo hakase and kii no gon no suke.
on december 17,935,he also assumed the position of shikibu shoyu(junior assitant minister of ceremonial).
on january 7,939,he was promoted to shogoinoge(senior fifth rank,lower grade)and he retained his positions as shikibu shoyu,daigaku no suke,monjo hakase and kii no gon no suke.
on february 2,he also assumed the position of daigaku no kami(director of the bureau of education).
he resigned from daigaku no suke.
on january 7,941,he was promoted to jushiinoge(junior fourth rank,lower grade)and he retained his positions as shikibu shoyu,daigaku no kami,monjo hakase and kii no gon no suke.(an example of holding the post of three offices)
on february 9,he was admitted to the court.
on march 28,he also assumed the position of mikawa no gon no kami(provisional governor of mikawa province).
he resigned from kii no gon no suke.
on march 29,942,he also assumed the position of bizen no kami(governor of bizen province).
he resigned from the position of mikawa no gon no kami.
on march 29,he was transferred to the position of shikibu taifu(senior assistant minister of ceremonial).
retained his positions as daigaku no kami,monjo hakase and bizen no kami.
on april 22,he also assumed the position of togu gakushi(teacher of the classics of crown prince).
on april 21,946,he was admitted to the court.
on april 28,he was promoted to shoshiinoge(senior fourth rank,lower grade)and he retained his positions as shikibu taifu,daigaku no kami,monjo hakase,togu gakushi and bizen no kami.
on july 17,he also assumed the position of sakyo gon no daibu(provisional master of the eastern capital offices).
on september 16,he also assumed the position of sakyo no daibu(master of the eastern capital offices).
he resigned from the position of sakyo gon no daibu.
on june 6,947,he also assumed the position of mino no kami(governor of mino province).
he resigned from bizen no kami.
on february 1,950,he was appointed to sangi(royal advisors).
he resigned from shikibu taifu,daigaku no kami,monjo hakase,togu gakushi,sakyo no daibu and mino no kami.
on january 30,951,he also assumed the position of omi no kami(governor of omi province).
on may 22,he also assumed the position of shikibu gon no taifu(provisional senior assistant minister of ceremonial).
on february 7,955,he was promoted to jusanmi(junior third rank)and he retained his positions as sangi and shikibu gon no taifu.
he resigned from the position of omi no kami.
on january 27,956,he also assumed the position of iyo no gon no kami(provisional governor of iyo province).
on january 30,958,he resigned from shikibu gon no taifu.
on august 22,960,he was transferred to chunagon(vice-councilor of state).
on september 16,he was admitted to the court.
on june 7,963,he died.
he was seventy-six years old.
at that time,he was chunagon and jusanmi.
he was conferred a posthumous rank of junii(junior second rank).
