sanemi tokudaiji
sanemi tokudaiji(february 8,1753-february 22,1819)was kugyo(a court noble)between the middle and late period of edo.
he primarily served for the four sovereigns:the 116th emperor momozono,the 117th emperor gosakuramachi,the 118th emperor gomomozono and the 119th emperor kokaku.
he was promoted up to juichii(junior first rank)udaijin(minister of the right).
his father was naidaijin(minister of the center)kinaki saionji.
his mother was a daughter of naidaijin koresue imadegawa.
his adoptive father was gon dainagon(provisional chief councilor of state)kinmura tokudaiji.
he had several children including gon dainagon kinmichi tokudaiji,chunagon(vice-councilor of state)saneyu shimizudani and princess yasu who was the second wife of the lord of the hiroshima domain,narikata asano.
he called himself sueshige at the beginning.
he was born the second son(some people say he was the third son)to kinaki saionji in kyoto.
he was conferred a peerage in 1757.
he was adopted by kinmura tokudaiji in 1760.
after he took the positions of ukone no gon no shosho(provisional minor captain of the right division of inner palace guards)and sakone no gon no chujo(provisional middle captain of the left division of inner palace guards),he was appointed gon chunagon(provisional vice-councilor of state)in 1773;he became the chief of in no miumaya(the division which was responsible for looking after oxen and horses)for the retired emperor gosakuramachi in 1774.
he served as toka no sechie geben(court noble who conducted toka no sechie[a ceremony held at the imperial court in january]outside the jomei gate)in 1776.
in 1779,he was appointed gon dainagon.
in 1786,he became the chief of outadokoro(folk music office).
in 1794,he was appointed chugu daibu(master of the consort's household)of imperial princess yoshiko,who was a consort of emperor kokaku.
in 1797,he became ukone no daisho(major captain of the right division of inner palace guards)and umaryo gogen(inspector of the right division of bureau of horses).
in 1798,although he was appointed naidaijin,he resigned the position.
he was given the title juichii(junior first rank)in 1800.
in 1815,although he was appointed udaijin,he resigned the position.
