kiminori sanjo
kiminori sanjo(sometimes called 'kinnori')(1103-august 19,1160)was a court noble in the late heian period and the head of the sanjo family,kanin line of the northern house of the fujiwara clan.
his father was the daijodaijin(grand minister of state)saneyuki sanjyo.
he was active under the cloister governments of retired emperors toba and goshirakawa.
his maternal grandfather fujiwara no akisue recommended him to emperor gotoba as a jiju(chamberlain)when he was 13,and used the relationship with his cousin bihukumonin(akisue's granddaughter),who was the emperor's favorite,to become a court noble at the young age of 31.
when gotoba abdicated and started his cloister government,kiminori's loyal and studious manner was highly evaluated and he was given the central command of the court and government was the shituji betto(chief officer)of the cloister government office.
in 1155,when bifukumon-in's son,emperor konoe died suddenly,kiminori,who was gon dainagon(provisional major counselor)at the time,held a small secret meeting with the cloistered emperor toba,kanpaku(chancellor)fujiwara no tadamichi and decided on the ascension of emperor goshirakawa.
the next year,when the hogen disturbance occurred immediately after the death of the cloistered emperor toba,kiminori stayed close with emperor goshirakawa together with tadamichi and fujiwara no shinzei.
when the emperor's side won,he organized the postponed funeral of the cloistered emperor toba and became the head of kirokujo(land record office)that was resurrected by recommendation of shinzei.
this act was evaluated and he was appointed naidaijin(minister)(also held sadaisho(major captain the left division of inner palace guards)from the previous year)in 1157.
however,three years later,he died suddenly before his father saneyuki.
his daughter married tadatumichi's son,motofusa matsudono(later regent kanpaku)and his second son sanekuni shigenoi started the shigenoi family,and his third son,kinyoshi anegakoji started the anegakoji(anekoji)family.
