yasuori wakisaka
yasuori wakisaka(march 30,1809-january 10,1874)was a politician at the end of edo period and the ninth lord of the tatsuno domain of harima province.
he was a roju(member of the shogun's council of elders).
he was the 11th generation of wakisaka family of the tatsuno domain.
career
he was the eldest son of yasutada wakisaka,the eighth lord of the tatsuno domain.
his lawful wife was the daughter of motoyoshi mori.
he had a son,yasuhiro wakisaka(the fifth son),and a daughter(yasutari wakisaka's wife).
his name was tomoyoshi,oribe.
his official ranks included jugoinoge(junior fifth rank,lower grade),awaji no kuni no kami(the governor of awaji province),followed by jushiinoge jiju(junior fourth rank,lower grade chamberlain)and nakatsukasa no taifu(senior assistant minister of the ministry of central affairs).
he was born as the eldest son of his father yasutada,but his younger brother yasuhira wakisaka was the legitimate child as he was the son of yasutada's lawful wife,so he remained as heyazumi(an adult-age eldest son who has yet to come into his inheritance)in the beginning.
however,yasuhira died early as a successor in 1839,so yasuori became a legitimate child at the age of 31.
he then succeeded to the position of family head due to his father's death in 1841.
the wakisaka clan of the tatsuno domain became an official fudai daimyo(a daimyo in hereditary vassalage to the tokugawa family)with his father's achievements,but yasuori was promoted normally,after inheriting his father's territories,to a jisha-bugyo(magistrate of temples and shrines),kyoto shoshidai(the kyoto deputy),and roju.
when he was the kyoto shoshidai,there was a great fire that destroyed the kyoto imperial palace,and he received a tea house from emperor komei for his achievement of its restoration.
the floating tea house 'shuentei' currently on the shinji-ike pond(a heart-shaped pond)in tatsuno park is the above mentioned tea house.
also,while serving as shoshidai he conducted business in the kinki region to expand sales channels for thin soy sauce which was tatsuno's local specialty.
he was promoted to roju in 1857 as the position had an opening,and he became responsible for foreign matters.
when naosuke ii was killed in the sakuradamongai incident,roju who were in the cabinet during the period of ii left the cabinet of officials for the shogunate sequentially.
yasuori resigned his post in 1861 and retired in 1862.
however,yasuori was ordered to return to the post the same year,so he became a roju again after retirement.
it was said that yasuori was hired because he had a matrimonial relation with the satsuma domain.
when shigetomi ohara,the imperial messenger,traveled to edo with hisamitsu shimazu,he visited the residence of the satsuma domain with katsukiyo itakura of the same post,accommodated,and assured shigetomi to give the post of shogun-kokenshoku(one of three major posts of the edo bakufu)to yoshinobu hitotsubashi and the post of tairo(chief minister)to yoshinaga matsudaira.
he resigned his post in october and was confined to his house in january due to his mistakes during his term as roju.
yasuori's successor was his adopted child,yasuaya wakisaka.
chronicle(history of his government posts and official ranks)
he was born in the residence of the tatsuno domain in edo in 1809.
he became the lord of the domain by inheriting the territories in 1841.
he became the jisha-bugyo in 1845.
he became the kyoto shoshidai in 1851.
he became a roju in september 1857.
he resigned the roju position in december 1861.
in 1862
he retired in april.
he returned to the post of roju in may.
he resigned the post in october.
he died in 1874.
he died at the age of 65.
