yoshimine no yasuyo
yoshimine no yasuyo(785-august 2,830)was a court noble during the early heian period.
he was a prince of emperor kanmu.
his mother was kudara no nagatsugu who was a lady of the court serving in the inner palace.
he had an older half brother fujiwara no fuyutsugu,on his mother's side.his children included henjo(sojo henjo)and yoshimine no?(良岑晨直).
he held the rank of shonii(senior second rank).
as a young man,he loved hunting and the performing arts.
in 802,he transferred out of the imperial family and joined the subjects of the state.
he used the name yoshimine no ason and was awarded jugoinoge(junior fifth rank,lower grade)in 809.
he also held military posts,and excelled in calligraphy and music.
he was appointed ukone no shosho(minor captain of the right division of inner palace guards),uta no kami(director of the bureau of music),sadaiben(major controller of the left);and by 811,he held the post of kurodo no to(head chamberlain).
thereafter,he was appointed saemon no kami(captain of the left division of outer palace guards)and udaiben(major controller of the right).
he was appointed sangi(royal advisor)in 816,and in 821,he was promoted to jusanmi(junior third rank)and appointed chunagon(vice-councilor of state).
he held the posts of azechi(inspector of the provincial government),togu no daibu(master of the crown prince's quarters)and ukone no daisho(major captain of the right division of inner palace guards)concurrently.
in 828,he was finally appointed dainagon(chief councilor of state).
he died in 830 at the age of 46.
he was awarded junii(junior second rank)posthumously.
yasuyo was involved in the compilation of 'nihon koki' (the third of the six classical japanese history texts)and 'dairishiki' (ceremonial book of the court),and his writing was included in the 'keikokushu' ('collection for ordering the state,' japan's third and last imperial anthology of literature in chinese).
history of his ranks and offices
dates＝old calendar
december 27,802:he became subject of the state and used the name yoshimine no ason.
november 807:appointed to the post of ueji no daijo(senior lieutenant of the right guards).
january 808:appointed to the post of saeji no daijo(senior lieutenant of the left guards).
april 809:appointed to the post of ukone no shogen(lieutenant of the right division of inner palace guards).
june 8:promoted to jugoinoge(junior fifth rank,lower grade).
june 12:transferred to the post of ukone no gon no shosho(provisional minor captain of the right division of inner palace guards).
june 23:appointed to the post of ukon no shosho.
december 4:appointed to the post of uta no kami.
january 11,810:concurrently held the post of assistant governor of tango province.
august:concurrently held the posts of gon ushoben(provisional minor controller of the right)and governor of tango province.
left the post of assistant governor of tango province.
september:concurrently held the post of sashoben(minor controller of the left).
left the post of gon ushoben.
september 16:concurrently held the post of assistant governor of tajima province.
left the post of governor of tango province.
february 27,811:appointed to the post of kurodo no to.
retained his position as sashoben.
june 1:promoted to jugoinojo(junior fifth rank,upper grade).
retained his position as sashoben.
october 14,812:promoted to shogoinoge(senior fifth rank,lower grade)and concurrently held post of saemon no gon no suke(provisional assistant captain of the left division of outer palace guards).
retained his position as sashoben.
january 813:concurrently held the post of governor of tajima province.
january 7,814:promoted to jushiinoge(junior fourth rank,lower grade)and retained his positions as sashoben and governor of tajima province.
january 13:concurrently held the post of uma no kami(captain of the right division of bureau of horses).
retained his position as governor of tajima province.
february:transferred to the post of sama no kami(captain of the left division of bureau of horses).
retained his position as governor of tajima province.
may 23:transferred to the post of sahyoe no kami(captain of the left division of middle palace guards).
retained his position as governor of tajima province.
august 27:transferred to the post of saemon no kami.
retained his position as governor of tajima province.
july 13,815:concurrently held the post of sakyo no daibu(master of the eastern capital offices).
january 10,816:concurrently held the posts of udaiben and governor of mimasaka province.
retained his position as saemon no kami.
october 27:appointed to the post of sangi.
retained his positions as udaiben and saemon no kami.
november 1:concurrently held the post of governor of omi province.
january 7,820:promoted to jushiinojo(junior fourth rank,upper grade)and retained his positions as sangi,udaiben and saemon no kami.
january 20:promoted to shoshiinoge(senior fourth rank,lower grade)and retained his positions sangi,udaiben and saemon no kami.
january 27:transferred to the post of sadaiben.
retained his positions as sangi and saemon no kami.
january 7,821:promoted to jusanmi(junior third rank)and retained his positions as sangi,sadaiben and saemon no kami.
january 9:transferred to the post of chunagon.
retained his position as saemon no kami.
february 5:concurrently held the post of mutsu dewa azechi(inspector of the provincial government in mutsu and dewa).
822:transferred to the post of sahyoe no kami.
resigned from the posts of sadaiben and saemon no kami.
retained the posts of chunagon and mutsu dewa azechi.
march 20:concurrently held the post of togu daibu(master teacher of the crown prince)to imperial prince otomo who later became emperor junna.
retained his positions as chunagon,sahyoe no kami and mutsu dewa azechi.
may 1,823:concurrently held the post of ukone no daisho(major captain of the right division of inner palace guards).
resigned from sahyoe no kami.
april 27:promoted to shosanmi(senior third rank)and retained his positions as chunagon,ukone no daisho and mutsu dewa azechi.
august:concurrently held the post of togu daibu to imperial prince masara who later became emperor ninmyo.
825:resigned from the post of mutsu dewa azechi.
february 20,828:transferred to the post of dainagon.
retained his position as ukone no daisho.
july 6,830:died.
he was 46 years old.
july 7:awarded with shonii(senior second rank).
