kikaku nakamura
kikaku nakamura is a kabuki(traditional drama performed by male actors)actor.
current kikaku nakamura is the second.
the jomon(family crest)is mukai kikaku bishi(向い亀鶴菱,literally,kikaku's opposite squares).
the first
kikaku nakamura(the first)(september 30,1948-march 20,1994):his real name was eijiro watanabe.
the stage family name was tennojiya(kabuki).
he was a son of tomijuro nakamura(the fourth)and yoshiko nakamura(also known as shimabara yugiri tayu).
yoshiko nakamura was the youngest daughter of ganjiro nakamura(the first).
his father had tomijuro nakamura(the fifth)and motoyasu yamada between tokuho azuma before married yoshiko nakamura to have kikaku.
therefore,he was the younger paternal half-brother of current tomijuro.
he made a debut at osaka kabuki-za theater in january 1954 under the name of eijiro nakamura and played a role of kogo in the drama 'momoku monogatari' (blind man's tale).
he fell to his death from the apartment of a female acquaintance in kyoto while he was performing at shin kabuki-za theater.
although the police investigated the possibility of suicide,but the results were not publicized.
the second
kikaku nakamura(the second)(june 18,1972-):the stage family name is yawataya.
he is the oldest son of the first.
he formerly called himself yoshihiko nakamura.
he was born in kyoto.
he is a grandson of yoshiko nakamura,a beloved daughter of the first ganjiro nakamura.
he made a debut at the age of four,playing a role of segare kantaro(a son named kantaro)in the drama "shigure no kotatsu" (the coverlet drenched with tears).
being the son of a distinguished family,he has a unique career as the 10th graduating class of kabuki actor training center of national theater of japan.
after having learned as a disciple of tomijuro nakamura,he succeeded to the second kikaku nakamura in 2001.
he has an old-looking face,such as that of in nishiki-e(colored woodblock print),that is suitable for kabuki,and he is lithe in build.
he is known for his elocution on the stage and dancing.
in 2004,he played a role of yohei kawachiya in the drama "onna koroshi abura no jigoku" (the woman-killer and the hell of oil)at osaka shochiku-za theater,expressed a warped mind of young man delicately and showed shadowy attractiveness as one of his charms.
he played a role of tendo in a contemporary drama "sentimental yasuko" performed by theatrical troupe cornflakes in 2006.
received the special award of national theater 1999.
received the encouragement award of japan actors' association 2000.
received the kyoto prefecture cultural prize,encouragement award 2006.
