sotetsu nakamura
sotetsu nakamura was a nurishi(a maker of lacquer ware and handiworks)of the senke jisshoku(the ten designated artisan families who supply their goods to the three sen tea families).
the nakamuras are a nurishi family that has continued for nearly 400 years.
the family originally produced furniture decorated with gold or silver lacquer(tsure nurishi),but concentrated on the lacquering of tea utensils after the meiji era(katamono nurishi).
soshu ichio(1593-1675),second son of sen no sotan,married a daughter of hachibei,the founder of the nakamura family(1617-1695)(although hachibei's surname was yoshioka at that time),changed his name to jinuemon yoshioka,and worked as a nurishi,but when soshu took over the kankyu-an tearoom(mushakoji-senke)from his father sotan,soshu left the yoshioka family and returned to the house of sen after he relinquished the profession to hachibei.
sotetsu is the 13th head of the nakamura family.
in 2006,the second daughter of the 12th sotetsu nakamura succeeded the name of sotetsu to become the 13th sotetsu.
history of the nakamura family
the first sotetsu(1617-1695)-unofficial name:hachibei;go(pen name):kohitsu,hosunan,too,michioki,isayama,yuzan,saishu.
he was on friendly terms with yoken fujimura and shoeki haiya.
his representative works include koshinko,komanurikoawase,yokenko,and bonchonatsume.
2nd sotetsu(1671-1706)-unofficial name:hachibei;go:kyusai.
his representative works include rangikuchunatsume.
3rd sotetsu(1699-1776)-unofficial name:hachibei;childhood name:nabechiyo;go:hojoan,too,michioki,shittsu,yusai,kohitsu,shoboku,and seryo
although his parents died when he was a small child,he was supported by the 6th omotesenke(the house of omotesen)head,kakukakusai,and the 7th head,joshinsai,and was allowed to be a member of the group that established the shichiji shiki(literally, "seven exercises";the staff came up with seven exercises of the tea ceremony as a pedagogical device),in spite of his youth.
he was a haiku poet and formed friendships with yosa no buson,kito and senkaku horiuchi.
his representative works include kakukakusaiko(or kakukakusaigonom),buriburikoawase,shoanko(or shoangonomi)and hoso natsume.
4th sotetsu(1726-1791)-unofficial name:tameyasu and hachibei;go:shinsai
he married a daughter of the third sotetsu.
in 1774,he was granted jurokuinoge(junior sixth rank,lower grade)and assigned to shosoku(junior officer)of shudenryo(office in charge of the care and maintenance of all the palace buildings)and saseikakannin.
he used "hachirobei tomita" for his signature name.
he also served empress go-sakuramachi as a designated vendor for imperial ceremonies.
his representative works include sansaiko and yafuchaki.
5th sotetsu(1764-1811)-unofficial name:morikazu and hachibei;go:hyosai and shitsuho
he was the husband of a daughter of the 4th sotetsu.
in 1783,he was appointed to be an assistant to shudenryo(office in charge of the care and maintenance of all the palace buildings),saseikakannin and shikibu no daisakan(senior alternate adjudicator)with a court rank jurokuinoge(junior sixth rank,lower grade)and became a designated vendor to the imperial court.
in 1788 when the great fire of tenmei occurred,his house burned down,but he was able to rescue books with designs and other data handed down for generations out of the burning house.
he compiled a family history out of the information he got from the wife of the late 3rd sotetsu.
he was a haiku poet and one of the disciples of shozan miyake.
his representative works include nintoku saiko and tsutamakie chunatsume.
6th sotetsu(1792-1839)-childhood name:shonosuke;unofficial name:hachibei,tameichi and hachirobei;go:yuzurihasai
eldest son of the 5th sotetsu
although he took over the family business in 1811,he yielded his position to his younger brother in 1815 and started his own business of lacquering as one of the vendors to the imperial court and as an ordinary nurishi for daimyo lords.
his representative works include nintoku saiko,gionjoekinatsume,gunkinatsume,and hosennatsume.
7th sotetsu(1798-1846)-childhood name:tsuiroku;unofficial name:hachirobei and hachibei;go:tokugen,bakusai,and kurobotan
he was the second son of the 5th sotetsu.
he was made head of the family by his brother and became a katamono nurishi(producer of lacquer ware tea utensils).
his representative works include natorigawa writing box and yugaodaisukaigu(jointly produced by josetsu,nanadaijoeki,and tannyu).
8th sotetsu(1828-1884)-childhood name:ushinosuke;unofficial name:hachirobei and tadakazu;go:shisai,chou and yoro.
eldest son of the 7th sotetsu
as the designated vendor for the imperial court,he dealt with plenty of materials and goods including those for the construction work of the kyoto imperial palace,the wedding of princess kazunomiya with the tokugawa shogun and for the visit of iemochi tokugawa to the imperial palace.
after the meiji restoration,he worked for kyoto exhibition company.
in 1876,he displayed his work at the centennial exhibition in philadelphia,usa,and won the bronze medal.
his representative works include rokurokusaiko,kibonatsume,gengensaiko,and akebononatsume.
9th sotetsu(1856-1911)-original name:kizaburo matsuzaki;go:gisho,eisai,ippo,and unsui.
husband of a daughter of the 8th sotetsu
he was originally a teacher at a public elementary school,where he started working after graduation from a teacher's college.
amid a decline of tea ceremony,he tried very hard to maintain his family business by taking various measures including employment by kyoto city university of arts.
his representative works include rokurokusaiko,itsubaifubukidaisho,tamirugaifubukiryumatsukinoshitabarinatsume,ryuomakieryufubuki,kuroetamashotumehiranatsume,kakusaiko,kakusaigonomi,urokozuruonatsume,and matussuriurushimarutaku.
tetsutaro nakamura
eldest son of the 9th sotetsu and the 10th nisotetsu
after his father died and he succeeded his father's title,he started producing tea utensils as "sotetsu nakamura" but later he retired from business(it is believed that he quit his business because he didn't like the family business or was not confident in maintaining his family business because of his poor health).
he died in 1926.
10th nisotetsu(1862-1926)-name:shin;fourth daughter of the 8th sotetsu
wife of the 9th sotetsu
she joined the workshop of shoen kishida and grew under the influence of liberal and democratic rights movements.
later,she entered a municipal nyokoba school for women as a member of the inaugural class and learned japanese dressmaking.
after marriage,she opened her own private japanese dressmaking school to support the household budget.
after the death of her husband,upon retirement of her eldest son,she was ordered by the 12th kakusai of omote senke family to temporarily succeed her family business and produced many utensils.
her representative works include kakusaiko,sasamakie writing box,hinayo ryuo tea utensils(joint work),hinayo kaiseki furniture,and omihakkei natsume.
11th sotetsu(1899-1993)-name:tadakura;go:gensai,kojo and kyushi
second son of the 9th sotetsu
he produced various masterpieces during the hard days during and after world war ii.
he was named a person of cultural merits by kyoto prefecture.
in 1985,he yielded his title to the 12th sotetsu and retired.
his representative works include kakusaiko,karasakimatsunaka natsume,daigoedadarezakura onatsume,sokuchusaiko,shiki,and daregasodemakie tea utensils.
12th sotetsu(1932-2005)-name:hiroko
eldest daughter of the 11th sotetsu
since her elder brothers didn't enter the family business,she was appointed successor.
graduated from kyoto city university of arts,department of crafts in 1955.
in 1986,she was allowed to serve the senke family and became the first woman who was officially recognized as the head of a senke jisshoku family.
she produced many pieces of lacquer ware in addition to tea utensils and won a high reputation as an industrial artist.
she died suddenly of a heart attack.
her three daughters are also japanese lacquer ware artists.
her representative works include jinyosaiko,kichijomatsudamarifubuki,and harunotabitansu.
13th sotetsu
second daughter of the 12th sotetsu
