fujiwara no norimichi
fujiwara no norimichi(july 29,996-november 6,1075)was the kugyo(the top court officials)of the mid-heian period and the fifth son of fujiwara no michinaga.
his mother was minamoto no rinshi.
his maternal siblings include,fujiwara no yorimichi,fujiwara no shoshi,fujiwara no kenshi,fujwiara no ishi,and fujiwara no kishi.
he inherited the uji no choja(a common clan chieftain)position from his older brother,yorimichi,and became kanpaku(chief advisor to the emperor)since his daughter,fujiwara no kanshi became the empress to the emperor goreizen in 1068.
however,the emperor gosanjo,who was not related to fujiwara clan,ascended the throne,and since his daughter kanshi did not conceive an imperial child,norimichi lost the political power and became the cause for the fall of fujiwara clan.
he went against the promise he made with his older brother,yorimichi,and schemed to pass the kanpaku position to his son,fujiwara no nobunaga,that the bad relation between the siblings became serious,and he actually permitted to carry out the enkyu no shoen seiri rei(legistration on private estates in the era of enkyu)policy of emperor gosanjo in order to dismantle the financial platform of yorimichi.
court rank history
*the dating system used＝old lunar calendar
december 5,1006:he underwent the genpuku ceremony(coming of age ceremony)and was given the jo(imperial court rank)rank of shogoinoge(senior fifth rank,lower grade).
he was permitted to undergo shoden(visit the imperial court).
december 16:he was assigned to be the jijyu(chamberlain)and was permitted to wear kinjiki(forbidden colors).
january 28,1007:he was reassigned to be the uhyoe no suke(assistant captain of the right division of headquarters of the middle palace guard).
november 2:he was reassigned to be the ukone no shosho(minor captain of the right division of inner palace guards).
january 7,1008:he went under shojo(promotion in rank)to jushiinoge(junior fourth rank,lower grade).
january 28:he was assigned to be the ukone no chujo(middle captain of the right division of inner palace guards)and gain the additional position as omi no suke(assistant governor of omi province).
october 16:he underwent shojo to jushiinojo(junior fourth rank,upper grade)and stayed as ukone no chujo and omi no suke.
march 20,1009:he was reassigned to be the sakone no chujo(middle captain of the left division of inner palace guards).
he stayed as omi no suke.
november 28,1010:he underwent shojo to jusanmi rank(junior third rank)and stayed as sakone no chujo.
august 11,1011:he underwent shojo to shosanmi rank(senior third rank)and stayed as sakone no chujo.
december 18:he was given the additional post as chugu gon daibu(provisional master of chugu(consort of emperor)to fujiwara no shoshi,the daughter of fujiwara no michinaga).
january 27,1012:he was assigned an additional duty as omi gon no kami(provisional governor of omi province).
february 14:since the chugu became the empress dowager,he gained the additional post as kotaigogu gon no daibu(provisional master of the empress dowager's household).
june 23,1013:he was reassigned to be the gon chunagon(provisional middle councilor)and gained the additional post of saemon no kami(captain of the left division of outer palace guards).
he stayed as kotaigogu gon no daibu.
september 16:he underwent shojo to junii rank(junior second rank)and stayed as gon chunagon,kotaigogu gon no daibu,and saemon no kami.
december 19:he gained the additional post of kebiishi no betto(a senior bureaucrat of the imperial police force).
november 1014:he left the post of kebiishi no betto.
october 21,1015:he underwent shojo to shonii rank(senior second rank)and stayed as gon chunagon and kotaigogu gon no daibu.
march 5,1016:he gained the additional post of sakone no daisho(major captain of the left division of headquarters of the inner palace guard).
the era changed to kannin era and gained the additional post of togu no daibu(master of the crown prince's quarters)(for imperial prince atsunaga,who became the emperor gosuzaku later)and quit being the kotaigogu gon no daibu on august 9,1017.
december 21,1019:he was reassigned to be gon dainagon(provisional major councilor)and stayed as sakone no daisho and shunkyu daibu.
july 25,1021:he was reassigned to be the naidaijin(minister of the interior)and stayed as sakone no daisho.
august 17,1037:he gained the additional post of togu no fu(official in charge of education of the crown prince)of togu(crown prince)(imperial prince chikahito who became the emperor goreizen afterwards).
january 16,1045:he retired from being the togu no fu.
november 25,1046:he was reassigned to be the togu no fu of togu(the second imperial prince,imperial prince takahito,who became the emperor gosanjo later).
august 1,1047:he was reassigned to be the udaijin(minister of the right).
august 9:he stayed as sakonoe taisho and togu no fu.
january 7,1057:he underwent shojo to receive the juichii rank(junior first rank)and stayed as udaijin,sakone no daisho,and togu no fu.
july 17,1060:he was reassigned to be sadaijin and stayed as sakone no daisho and togu no fu.
april 11,1062:he retired from being the sakone no daisho.
december 13,1064:he declared senge(imperial proclamation)of fujiwara shi choja(the head of fujiwara clan).
april 16,1068:he declared senge as the kanpaku(chancellor).
he stayed as togu no fu and sadaijin.
april 19:he quit the post of togu no fu.
august 13,1069:he retired from the sadaijin post.
march 23,1070:he declared senge to be the daijo daijin(prime minister).
he stayed as kanpaku and fujiwara shi choja.
august 10,1071:he retired from daijo daijin post.
september 25,1075(november 6,1075 in a modern calendar):he passed away.
he died at the age of eighty and was posthumously given the rank of shoichii(senior first rank)on october 6.
