kageaki kawamura
kageaki kawamura(april 8,1850-april 28)was a military man of japan and a peerage.
he successively served as governor of eiju(one of government general of imperial japanese army)in tokyo and commander of oryokuko-gun(japanese army),and his official rank was marshal,general of the army,ikai(court rank),order of the chrysanthemum,order of the golden kite,viscount.
his assumed name(common name)was genjuro.
career
he was born as the 3rd son of kichibe nozaki,feudal retainer of satsuma,in satsuma,and later adopted as a child of shinzaemon kagenao kawamura as a heir of the kawamura family.
he took part in anglo-satsuma war and boshin war,and in april 1869,assumed office as hohei daitai shotai shoto(a shoto head of infantry battalion and platoon)of the satsuma domain.
in april 1871,he went up to tokyo,and in july,began to serve the new meiji government as sergeant of army for goshimpei(army to convoy the emperor).
in july 1872,he was appointed as shojo(second lieutenant)of army for the 2nd infantry battalion of imperial guard,and in the following year,went on to chujyo(first lieutenant)of army.
in april,he was ordered to work at chindai(garrison in meiji era)in hiroshima prefecture as taijyo(captain)of army.
in april,he received an official appointment as daitaicho kokoroe(acting battalion chief)of the 11th infantry regiment,and departed for the front of hagi-no-ran war(turmoil of dissatisfied warriors at hagi).
in february of the following year,he departed for the front of seinan war under the 3rd expeditionary force,and in april in war time,went on to lieutenant commander to be daitaicho(battalion chief)of the 11th infantry regiment.
in february,after lieutenant colonel of army,chief of the 4th infantry regiment,he successively experienced staff officer of chindai(garrison)in kumamoto prefecture,chief staff officer of the 6th shidan(division)(japanese army)and the 1st kyokucho(office leader)of staff headquarters(japan)to be a colonel of the army.
in june,he was ordered to be army major general,chief of the 8th infantry brigade,and in august,changed to chief of the 1st infantry brigade for imperial guard to depart for the front.
he ranked with peerage given a title of baron for his achievement in december.
in october,he assumed office as lieutenant general,chief of the 1st shidan(division)(japanese army),and in april,assumed office as chief of the 10th shidan in succession to fushiminomiya imperial prince sadanaru.
in may,he departed for the front of the russo-japanese war,and during this military campaign,he assumed office as army general,commander of oryokuko-gun and took part in the battle of mukden.
after the war,he took on military sangi councilor and governor of eiju in tokyo,and received the grand cordon of the order of the rising sun with paulownia flower and the order of the golden kite in the 1st class.
in september,he advanced to the rank of viscount.
in january,he received the honor to rank with marshal(japan).
from december,he served as an association of reservists.
in april,he passed away during his service as chairman.
at his funeral,he received grand cordon of the supreme order of the chrysanthemum.
his grave is located at aoyama cemetery in aoyama,minato ward,tokyo.
family
his heir,keichi kawamura,succeeded.
keichi graduated from army war college(japan)in the 28th class,and advanced to the rank of the colonel of the army.
kageaki's daughters married masamine narita,respectively lieutenant general,junichi fujitsu,army major general and masahiro matsuoka,captain of army.
