tadachika nakayama
tadachika nakayama(around 1131-april 30,1195)was a court noble who lived in the heian period,was commonly called nakayama naidaijin(nakayama,the minister of the center)and was the founder of the nakayama family.
he was the third son of fujiwara no tadamune and his mother was a daughter of fujiwara no ieyasu.
tadamasa kazanin,daijo-daijin(grand minister of state),was his elder brother from the same mother.
his wives were fujiwara no mitsufusa's daughter and a daughter of taira no tokitada,and his children were kanemune nakayama,tadasue nakayama,kanesue nakayama,tadaaki nakayama,shinkaku(親覚),masaaki(雅明),kakujo(覚敒),shinkei and a concubine of kinfusa sanjo.
he is known for his diary "sankaiki."
it is said that he might be the writer of the historical tale "mizu kagami" (literally,water mirror).
he was given jugoinoge(junior fifth rank,lower grade)in 1140.
he was successively kurodo(chamberlain),chujo(middle captain)at konoefu(the headquarters of the inner palace guards)and kurodo no to(head chamberlain).
he became sangi(councilor)in 1164,gon chunagon(provisional vice-councilor of state)at jusanmi(junior third rank)in 1167 and later,uemon no kami(captain of the right division of the outer palace guards)and then kebiishi no betto(superintendent of the imperial police).
like his elder brothers,he was intimate with members of the taira clan and he served taira no tokuko as chugu gon no daibu(provisional master of the consort's household)and later as kenreimonin no betto(chief officer serving kenreimonin).
he also became innocho-betto(chief administrator of the retired emperor's office)for cloistered emperor goshirakawa and his behavior is described in "gyokuyo" (kanezane kujo's diary)as having 'engaged in the ways of etiquette for years and he now receives great praise.'
after a coup in 1179,he was appointed to togu no daibu(master of the crown prince's quarters),replacing his dismissed nephew,kanemasa kazanin.
he became gon dainagon(provisional chief councilor of state)at shonii(senior second rank)in early february 1183,but after the taira clan fled the capital in july of the same year,his rise came to a halt.
in december of 1185,after being evaluated by yoritomo as a court noble wotrhy of a government position,he was recommended for the giso-kugyo(council of nobles).
in 1191,he was appointed to naidaijin(minister of the center).
in 1194,he became a priest and took the name seiwa.
he died in april of the next year.
