yasukuni tsuchimikado
yasukuni tsuchimikado(september 20,1711 to june 26,1784)was a high court noble and an inyoka(the yin and yang school of philosophy)in the middle of the edo period.
he was the youngest child of yasutomi tsuchimikado.
he was the adopted child of his elder brother yasutsura tsuchimikado.
the legitimate son yasumasa tsuchimikado of yasutomi tsuchimikado died of sickness before his father died.
therefore,younger brother yasutsura succeeded to the head of the family as yasumasa's adopted child.
however,he had not been blessed with children,so he received his youngest brother yasukuni as an adopted child.
later,yasutsura's own child yasuani tsuchimikado was born.
however,yasukuni took over as head of the family with the condition that he received yasuani as his adopted child to succeed after him.
(however,yasuani and his legitimate son,arikuni tsuchimikado died of sickness earlier than yasukuni.
yasunobu tsuchimikado,an adopted child of arikuni from the hagiwara family,was abolished.
after all,yasuhide tsuchimikado,who was the adopted child of yasunobu from the related kurahashi family[great-great-grandson of yasukuni on the genealogy],became the son-in-law of yasukuni and became the successor.)
in 1750,he became junior third rank in place of his elder brother who retired.
since the establishment of the edo shogunate,the shogunate was taking up the authority of changing the name of the era from the court in reality.
however,in addition,the shogunate brought over harumi shibukawa,who hit the business as a subordinate of yasutomi tsuchimikado in the making of the jokyo calendar,to be a tenmonkata(officer in charge of astronomy)and plundered even the authority of calendar amendment.
yasukuni,who was worried about this,protected the calendar scholars such as tosato nishimura who were out of power,and put them under his wing.
anyway,the 8th generation barbarian subduing general yoshimune tokugawa sent the astronomical scholar masayoshi nishikawa to kyoto,in an attempt to make a new calendar based on the western astronomy.
however at that time,yoshimune died of sickness,and the inside of the shogunate became impossible to do the calendar amendment.
then,yasukuni banished nishikawa from kyoto,took the lead to make the calendar amendment,made the horyaku calendar in 1754,and executed it the next year.
in view of this distinguished services,he was promoted up to senior second rank jibukyo(minister of the ministry of civil administration).
however,the calender was problematic because only eight years after the enforcement,the incompleteness of the solar eclipse forecast was pointed out by goryu asada,tosato nishimura and others.
even in 1771 when yasukuni was still alive,corrections were already made.
and only 13 years after yasukuni's death,the calendar was restored back to kansei calendar again(in 1797).
