fukusuke nakamura
fukusuke nakamura is a professional name of kabuki(traditional drama performed by male actors)of utaemon nakamura line.
a person with the stage name of fukusuke would often take the name utaemon or shikan when he made his full debut;nowadays,however,the most common names to be adopted by a person with the stage name of fukusuke are kotaro,fukusuke,shikan and utaemon,in that order.
stage family name is 'narikomaya'.
family crest is gionmori(the emblem(or family crest)of the narikomaya kabuki family).
(osaka fukusuke described later is a previous name of baigyoku.family crest is takasagoya.)
originally it was one of plain professional names taken from a childhood name of utaemon the third,fukunosuke.
however,when utaemon the second died in osaka,a promoter there arbitrarily decided to make a young actor adopt the name of utaemon the third,as a last resort.
since then,the two lines of fukusuke have coexisted,one in the east and one in the west,and the name has become a topic of considerable debate.
normally,line of osaka is called 'takasagoya fukusuke' or 'osaka fukusuke'.
however,utaemon the fifth(fukusuke the fourth)enraged at the fact that the professional name was split,he willed 'professional name of fukusuke must not be left blank for any moment' to claim legitimacy of line of tokyo(line of narikomaya).
because of this,the professional name has a characteristic of unusually many generations compared with other professional name.
for line of takasagoya fukusuke,family lineage ceased after fukusuke the fifth died,and utaemon the sixth made his eldest son carry baigyoku the fourth,therefore the professional name of takasagoya fukusuke has practically disappeared.
before splitting
fukusuke nakamura the first was an adopted son of utaemon nakamura(the fourth).
later became shikan nakamura(the fourth).
fukusuke nakamura the second was a brother of the first.
he died young in osaka.
see fukusuke nakamura the second for reference.
other that,there was a disciple of utaemon who claimed fukusuke nakamura in edo era,but normally is not counted as a generation.
line of narikomaya
fukusuke nakamura the third was succeeded to a disciple once,but the name was changed later.
fukusuke nakamura the fourth was an adopted son of the first.
later became utaemon nakamura(the fifth).
fukusuke nakamura the fifth was a son of the fourth.
he was popularly known as 'kei chan fukusuke'.
see fukusuke nakamura(the fifth)for reference.
fukusuke nakamura the sixth was a brother of the fifth.
later became utaemon nakamura(the sixth).
fukusuke nakamura the seventh was a son of the fifth.
later became shikan nakamura(the seventh).
fukusuke nakamura the eighth was an adopted son of the sixth.
later became baigyoku nakamura(the fourth).
his wife,yukiko,was a granddaughter of saneatsu mushanokoji,a novelist.
fukusuke nakamura the ninth was a son of the seventh.
see fukusuke nakamura(the ninth)for reference.
line of takasagoya
fukusuke nakamura the third later became baigyoku nakamura the second.
fukusuke nakamura the fourth was an adopted son of the third.
later became baigyoku nakamura(the third).
fukusuke nakamura the fifth was a son of the fourth.
see fukusuke nakamura(the fifth in takasagoya)for reference.
