iehira togo
iehira togo(year of birth unknown-march 31,1179)was a warrior at the end of the heian period,who belonged to the family of the harada clan.
in 'genealogy of the harada clan',iehira was the first person who called himself the togo clan,and in 'togo-cho magazine,' the lineage of iehira is described as the 'harada clan with the family name of togo' and 'togo clan(harada clan)'.
career
when iehira was the family head,the togo clan came to have many rights and interests in the whole area of the kawamura county,hoki province and established a firm position.
it is thought that this is the reason that the place name of togo-cho(tottori prefecture)came to exist from the generation of iehira.
iehira shown in the genealogy
according to the genealogy, 'the grave of taro togo saemon no jo(lieutenant of outer palace guards,left division)is in wada,togonai,hoki province.he was killed by kurodo(chamberlain)nakakichi nozu and motoyasu ogamonosuke in the battle of the mount tsuhokami that occurred in the hoki province on february 22(old lunar calendar),1179.'
thus,the genealogy describes about his official rank,saemon no jo(lieutenant of outer palace guards,left division)and how he died in the battle of mount tsuhokami.
in the battle of mount tsuhokami,his cousins toshikane harada and toshiie harada,also died in the battle;but there were few notes on it in the genealogy and it can be thought that it was because iehira was in the position to take the reins of the togo clan as the family head.
the graveyard of iehira
in addition,the place of the grave of iehira is described in the notes.
in the traditional theories,the place, 'wada,togo,hoki province',was interpreted as present yurihamacho nagouta,but at present it is thought that a character sho(庄)is missing after 'togo' and the correct place of the grave is 'wada,togoshonai.'
in fact,there is a place named "wada" in tabatake,yurihamacho,which is a little distant from nagouta and visitors can see several broken gorinto(five-ring towers)in this place.
