munesada yuasa
munesada yuasa(year of birth and death unknown)was a military commander during japan's warring states period.
he was the son of munefuku(or alternatively munemasa)yuasa.
he was the lord of seki-jo castle in tanba province(today's hiyoshi-cho,nantan city,kyoto prefecture).
his nickname was "lieutenant gorobe."
his official court rank was governer of echizen province.
summary
the tanba yuasa clan was one family among the yuasa faction,which led the largest warrior group in kii province during the medieval period;they were made up of the descendants of muneuji ategawa,himself the descendant of muneshige yuasa.
the yuasa clan first came to power when muneuji's fifth-generation descendant,munetomo yuasa,achieved dominion over the village of seki in tanba province.
during munesada's own time japan was in the warring states period;he followed kunisada naito,the deputy governor of tanba province,in making war on the hatano clan.
in 1553,motokiyo hatano,the lord of yakami-jo castle,invaded the naito domain,and kunisada naito was killed in action during the battle of honme village.
at the time of his death,kunisada had one son,chikatsumaru naito,so munesada took chikatsumaru and sheltered him at sonobe-jo castle,holding out there until nagayori matsunaga's reinforcements arrived.
after nagayori recaptured yagi-jo castle,he took on the responsibility of being guardian to chikatsumaru,yet regardless,he succeeded to the naito clan surname,changing his name to munekatsu naito.
in 1562,during the battle of kyoko-ji temple,munesada,as one of the powerful local lords of tanba province,followed munekatsu naito in aligning himself with chokei miyoshi's faction.
the opposing faction of takamasa hatakeyama included among its adherents members of munesada's own family,including munemasa yuasa as well as tomomune yasuda,but although he was forced to fight against members of his own family,munesada managed to emerge victorious.
in 1570,munesada suddenly relinquished his rank and position as lord of seki-jo castle and returned to farmer status.
it is said that he turned over headship of the family to his son(or possibly adopted son)munekiyo yuasa.
