fujiwara no tamaro
fujiwara no tamaro(722-april 28,783)was a court noble and sadaijin(minister of the left)in the nara period.
his clan rank title was ason.
his pseudonym was ninabuchi-daijin.
he was the fourth son of a councilor fujiwara no umakai.
his mother was an adopted daughter of小肆小治田朝臣功麿男牛.
he had elder brothers whose names were fujiwara no hirotsugu,fujiwara no yoshitsugu and fujiwara no kiyonari,and younger brothers whose names were fujiwara no tsunate,fujiwara no momokawa and fujiwara no kurajimaro.
career
in 740,he was involved in his brother fujiwara no hirotsugu's affair and exiled to oki province.
in 742,he was permitted to go into retirement in mt.ninabuchi.
in 761,conferred the imperial court rank of jugoinoge(junior fifth rank,lower grade),he became setsudoshi(military governor)of saikaido region(western-sea region).
in 763,appointed as mino no kami(governor of mino province),uchuben(middle controller of the right)and gaie chujo(outer guards lieutenant general),he became mutsu dewa azechi(inspector of the provincial government in mutsu and dewa).
in 765,he was promoted to the shogoinojo(senior fifth court rank,upper grade)and became gaie taisho(outer guards general).
in 766,he was appointed as tanba no kami(governor of tanba province),dazai no daini(senior assistant governor general of the dazai-fu)and hyobukyo(minister for military affairs),promoted from the jushiinoge(junior fourth court rank,lower grade)to jushiinojo(junior fourth rank,upper grade)and also appointed as sangi(councilor).
in 767,he was appointed as uhyoe no kami(captain of the right division of middle palace guards).
in 768,he resigned uhyoe no kami(captain of the right division of middle palace guards).
appointed as dazai no daini(senior assistant governor general of the dazai-fu)again,he became kengyo hyogo shogun(armory guards general).
in 770,he was conferred the shoshiinoge(senior fourth court rank,lower grade).
promoted from the imperial court rank of shoshiinojo(senior fourth court rank,upper grade)to jusanmi(junior third court rank),he was appointed as hyobukyo(minister of military affairs)in 771.
in 774,he resigned hyobukyo(minister of military affairs).
in 775,he became settsudaibu(a master of settsu province).
in 778,he was appointed as chue gontaisho(inner guards vice-general)and nakatsukasakyo(minister of the central affairs).
in 779,promoted to the shosanmi(senior second court rank),he was appointed as chunagon(vice-councilor of the state)and togu denso(reporter to the crown prince's palace).
in 781,although he resigned togu denso,he was appointed as dainagon(great councilor).
in 782,promoted to the junii(junior second court rank),he became udaijin(minister of the right)and kotaishi denso(reporter to the crown prince).
in 783,although he was appointed as sadaijin(minister of the left),he passed away at the age of 62.
the imperial court rank of shonii(senior second rank)was given after his death.
descendants
fujiwara no tamaro's oldest son was called the twenty-seventh generation descendant of田上and conferred the imperial court rank of shogoinoge(senior fifth rank,lower grade).
consequently,the family name of fujiwara no tamaro's descendants became "田上."
fujiwara no mitsunori(mitsunori田上),the twenty-seventh generation descendant of田上,was given the imperial court rank of jushiinoge(junior fourth rank,lower grade)and appointed as sanuki no kami(governor of sanuki province).
there was another descendant named mitsuhisa田上who became八大夫of hatta village,ichishi county.
a place associated with fujiwara no tamaro
kasuga-jinja shrine(kasuga city)
it is a shinto shrine located in kasuga city,fukuoka prefecture.
the main building of the shrine was built in 768 when he was dazai no daini(senior assistant governor general of the dazai-fu).
