ozuki no hirofusa
ozuki no hirofusa(year of birth unknown-july 13,1202)was a lower or middle ranked government official during the end of the heian period.
he was the son of sadaishi(senior recorder of the left)ozuki no naganari.
san hakase(doctor of numbers)ozuki no kinhisa was his son.
he is regarded as the substantial founder of the omiya family(ozuki clan),which is the lineage of naganari.
he was appointed to udaishi(senior recorder of the right)in 1166 after his father's death to be equal in rank to sadaishi(official position)otsuki no takamoto,who was a biological younger brother of his father.
in 1169,he was at the position of san hakase,and received a prize for a royal visit to the kasuga-taisha shrine,which was held when his father was alive,on behalf of his father and was conferred jugoinojo(junior fifth rank,upper grade).
in 1178,he was conferred shogoinoge(senior fifth rank,lower grade),and successively held shuzei no gon no suke(deputy director of the bureau of taxation)and hyuga no kuni kokushi(provincial governor of hyuga province).
in 1185,when takamoto,who was accused by minamoto no yoritomo of minamoto no yoshitsune's imperial decree to hunt down and kill his older brother yoritomo,was overthrown together with takashina no yasutsune and others,hirofusa was appointed to sadaishi.
hirofusa was under kanezane kujo's government and was appointed to kirokujo yoryudo(officials who served at the land record office)with takamoto,but when the retired emperor goshirakawa regained to appoint takamoto for his previous position 1191,hirofusa was demoted to kawachi no kuni no kami(governor of kawachi province).
two years later when takamoto fell critically ill,hirofusa competed with otsuki no kunimune,the son of takamoto,for the successor to sadaishi,but lost.
kunimune occupied the position for the next 22 years until his death,and the position of sadaishi did not return to hirofusa's lineage until ozuki no suetsugu,who was a grandson of hirofusa and a son of kinhisa,was appointed to sadaishi following kunimune's death.
thereafter,hirofusa was appointed to the kirokujo(land record office)koto(a secretary)and genba no kami(director of the bureau of buddhism and aliens),but entered into priesthood in 1202 and took boren as a second name or alias,and it is said that he died soon thereafter.
