doan sen
doan sen(1546-march 14,1607),a japanese tea ceremony master during the sengoku and edo periods of japanese history.
he was originally named shoan.
his name was later changed to doan.
his tea names were kakyusai,fukyusai,mino,and sennandoanrojin.
he was the head of the sakai-senke(sakai sen house).
brief personal history
he was born in 1546,the first son of sen no rikyu.
his mother was hoshin myoju.
although he was a legitimate son of the sen family,he had disagreements with rikyu and left home at an early age.
later he was reconciled with rikyu.
he mastered the "way of tea" (the japanese tea ceremony)and became one of the eight tea masters of hideyoshi toyotomi.
after rikyu's seppuku(ritual suicide),he was said to have been placed with nagachika kanamori(though there is a different view to this),where he was ordered to stay inside in disciplinary confinement.
since nagachika was a master of tea ceremony as well,their friendship presumably grew deeper.
in 1594,he was granted a pardon and returned to sakai city(though various theories exist as to the time of his return),where he succeeded as the head of the sen family(sakai-senke).
in 1601,upon the invitation of tadaoki hosokawa,he became tadaoki's sado(person in charge of the tea ceremony)and was bestowed three hundred koku in misaki,buzen province.
in 1607,he died on the land of buzen province(though there is a different view to this).
doan as a person and his episodes
when he is mentioned,he is often compared with his younger brother-in-law,shoan sen,because they were the same age.
some anecdotes picture shoan having better skill at japanese tea ceremony than doan,but one needs to consider the fact that only the san-senke(three sen families)of the shoan lineage exist today.
among such historical materials,there often appear words of praise for doan,inferring he had demonstrated his exceptional skill in those days.
there have been some confirmed contradictions between the historical materials belonging to the san senke and fact,such as the case in which the person with a congenital leg impairment was shoan in reality whereas in a san-senke material it was replaced as doan.
there is an interesting story about the two,when they were asked by rikyu to each pick a bamboo rest for a teakettle lid,and doan picked a rugged one with bamboo joints,while shoan chose a smooth one without any joints,suggesting that doan had a open-hearted personality in contrast to shoan's delicate one(the "koshin gegaki").
there remains a story in which hideyoshi asked rikyu, "who should performed a tea ceremony around the inner sanctuary of the great buddha(at the hoko-ji temple)?",to which rikyu replied, "doan should.",recommending doan("sawa shigetsu shu" [a collection of genpaku sotan's talks about tea]).
it is said that when rikyu was invited to a doan's tea gathering,he said while waiting for the host, "one of the stepping stones(tobi-ishi)in the tea garden(roji)is positioned too high.",which doan had heard in katte(a place used to cook and prepare food in upper class residences),and he corrected it during the intermission(nakadachi)(the "sawa shigetsu shu").
after the restoration of the sen family,when doan made tea in front of the emperor upon the invitation of hideyoshi,hideyoshi praised him,saying, "you bear a close resemblance to soeki(rikyu's buddhist name)." (the"sawa shigetsu shu")
achievements as a master of tea ceremony and public evaluations
people say if shoan's tea is considered "stillness",then doan's tea is "movement".
it seems he was full of creative enthusiasm and came up with ideas to seek strength within simplicity.
it is said that metal ash spoons(haisaji)originated when doan had used a metal piece to level ash.
doan is said to have created the procedure of wiping a lacquered lid with a tea cloth(chakin)before placing the tea cloth on the lid.
he also created the doan-gakoi(enclosure)and the doan-buro(portable brazier).
leading disciples of doan sen
sadaharu kuwayama(also known by his buddhist name,sosen),the lord of gose domain in yamato province.
he was a teacher of sadamasa katagiri.
arishige kanamori(also known as unshu kanamori),a warrior who served hideyoshi toyotomi and ieyasu tokugawa.
he was the biological father of shigechika kanamori(also known as sowa kanamori),and while his exchange with doan is for certain,some suggest his tea ceremony teacher was actually shigenari furuta.
