yasutsuna utsunomiya
yasutsuna utsunomiya was a samurai during the early to middle kamakura period.
he was the an immediate vassal to the kamakura bakufu(japanese feudal government headed by a shogun).
he was the sixth head of the utsunomiya clan.
his father was yoritsuna utsunomiya,and his mother was tokimasa hojo's daughter.
brief personal history
in 1238 he came to kyoto to serve the shogun,yoritsune kujo,and was appointed to the governor of shimotsuke province.
considering the fact that there was a record of yasutsuna in azuma kagami(the mirror of the east)stating that his official rank was shurishiki(office of palace repairs),which was equivalent to junior fifth rank,lower grade,around 1230,it is presumed that he maintained that rank and was eventually appointed to the governor of shimotsuke province.
after finishing his duty as the governor of shimotsuke in 1241,it is said he was promoted to junior fifth rank,upper grade.
in 1243 he was appointed a member of the councillors of the bakufu;after that he remained in his position until he died and played an important role in politics in the bakufu.
in 1249 he was given the position of provincial constable of mino province as a position within bakufu.
on the other hand,it is said he was promoted to senior fifth rank,lower grade in 1246,however there are no records stating what happened after this fact.
on november 1,1261,he died in kyoto when he was 59 years old,following in his father's footsteps,yoritsuna utsunomiya.
he was also known as a waka poet,and played an active part in the utsunomiya poetry circle.
a lot of yasutsuna's poems were contained in gyokuyo wakasyu(jeweled leaves collection)and shoku shui wakashu(12th imperial anthology).
according to "azuma kagami" (the mirror of the east),after yasutsuna finished his duty as the governor of shimotsuke province,he was called 'the former governor of shimotsuke.'
chronicle
he was born in 1203.
he accompanied yoshitsune kujo as a sword-bearer within the precincts during a procession to visit a new temple on august 21,1235.
on september 12,1236,he moved to the imperial palace in wakamiyaoji.
yoritsune walked from the residence of yasutoki hojo to the new palace,and entered the palace from the south gate.
yasutsuna accompanied yoritsune as one of the higher-ranked servants to yoritsune(fifth and sixth ranks).
on july 23,1237,yoritsune had built a new monastery within the daiji-ji temple,and yasutsuna,as a higher-ranked servant,accompanied the yoritsune's procession to visit the monastery to hold a memorial serivce.
yoritsune's procession left kamakura for kyoto on february 21,1238.
yasutsuna went up to kyoto,accompaning the procession.
yoritsuna's procession entered kyoto and arrived at the imperial palace in rokuhara on march 11,1238.
yasutsuna accompanied the procession as no.62 attendant warrior to yoritsune and entered kyoto.
on march 21,1238,yasutsuna was appointed to the governor of shimotsuke province(the official rank was presumed to be junior fifth rank,lower grade or junior fifth rank,upper grade).
on march 22,1238,he accompanied the procession to present a horse to the court noble as no.2 attendant warrior.
on july 24,1238,he accompanied yoritsune's procession to kasugataisha shrine as no.2 servant.
around march 1240,yasutsuna finished his duty as the governor of shimotsuke province,and he was presumed to be promoted to junior fifth rank,upper grade.
he accompanied yoritsune to the tsurugaoka hachiman-gu shrine on february 3,1241.
on october 8,1241,yoritsune had built shin hokutodo,and yasutsuna,as a servant,accompanied the yoritsune's procession to visit the shin hokuto-do.
on december 14,1241,in order to start the development of musashino area,yoritsune went to tsurumi in musashi province by ship for changing the direction to enter the development site to avoid the direction of ill fortune(katatagae).
yasutsuna accompanied the above procession as an attendant.
around february 1243,yasutsuna was appointed to a member of council of state(it was presumed that he was in this position until he died).
on february 16,1243,yasutsuna accompanied yoritsune to visit the tsurugaoka hachiman-gu shrine.
at the residence of tokiyori hojo,on march 24,1243,yasutsuna was order to atttend at the trial on the days of the rotation no.1(3rd,9th,13th,17th,23rd).
on september 9,1243,working days for yasutsuna as attendant was decided as the middle ten days of a month.
on october 26,1243,yasutsuna accompanied yoritsune to visit okura family and mototsuna goto.
on june 4,1244,yasutsuna attended as a member of council of state for the coming-of-age ceremony of fujiwara no yoritsugu,who was a successor to the shogun family,and offered yoritsugu a cup of sake.
at the coming-of-age ceremony,it was announced that the ceremony was conducted and finished in a satisfactory manner,and yoritsugu was given a new official rank,and appointed as barbarian subduing generalissimo.
on september 25,1244,yoritsune took the shogun yoritsugu to attend the ritual for releasing living beings at tsurugaoka hachiman-gu shrine.
yasutsuna accompanied the procession as a higher-ranked servant.
yasutsuna was promoted to senior fifth rank,lower grade,around february 1246.
on october 3,1246,yoritsugu attended the ritual for releasing living beings at tsurugaoka hachiman-gu shrine.
yasutsuna accompanied yoritsugu's procession as a higher-ranked servant.
on august 6,1247,yasutsuna attended a verdict(it was an occasion of good fortune for buddhist rituals,and a chief councilor of state,hoin ryuben was appointed to the office of head of tsurugaoka hachiman-gu shrine).
on february 2,1248,there was an occasion to reward certain individuals over the battle of hoji,and it was the working day for the imperial guard service in kyoto;yasutsuna joined the patrol as no.21 guard for three months in kyoto.
on february 5,1248,yoritsugu went to the residence of sashine for the ritual for the first excursion,and yasutsuna accompanied yoritsugu.
on february 9,1248,the sitting order of the members of council of state at the hall in the shogun's residence was decided.
yasutsuna's sitting order was the second from the end of the wakaza(literally,seat for youth).
on august 27,1248,sashine went to the residence of sanekage kasukabe,and yasutsuna went there as well with yukiyoshi oki to have a match of igo board game.
in 1249 yasutsuna was appointed provincial constable of mino province.
on may 5,1250,yoritsugu entered the shogun's residence in sagami province for changing the direction(katatagae).
yoritsuna accompanied that entrance to the residence as a higher-ranked servant.
on june 17,1250,yoritsugu entered the shogun's residence in sagami province for changing the direction(katatagae).
yasutsuna,together with the former governor of sado province,the vice-minister of the judicial department nyudo,and others,waited for yoritsugu at the imperial palace beforehand.
on december 12,1250,there was an incident in the night when tomonari shionoya's retainers had an argument and caused a brawl on the wakamiya-oji street.
yasutsuna's retainers revolted while identifying themselves as a government force in an attempt to increase the brawl.
while it occurred not long after the head of shionoya clan(chikatomo shionoya)died and the bakufu had not taken any drastic measures,it was considered a grave offense to act irresponsibly without consideration both in public and private,through strange behavior and violence.
yasutsuna was ordered to suppress the incident and made the retainers stop the violence.
yoritsugu entered the shogun's residence in sagami province for the ritual for the first excursion with the young shogun and others.
yasutsuna accompanied them as the attendants of shogun.
on january 31,1251,yoshitoki hojo gave a feast to yoritsugu,and yasutsuna presented harness.
on december 10,1251,yoritsugu,accompanied the second court rank for imperial princes,and then entered and stayed at the newly built shogun's residence in sagami province.
yasutsuna accompanied yoritsugu as the attendants of nihon.
on may 17,1252,after yoritsugu resigned from shogun,imperial prince munetaka came down from kyoto as a successor to yoritsugu.
after prince munetaka left the hotel in katase(fujisawa city),a procession of court ladies,palanquins,court nobles,attendant warriors and others welcomed the prince to enter the residence of the shogun in sagami province.
yasutsuna waited for the prince beforehand with the govrnors of mutsu province and sagami province in the garden of the residence of the shogun in sagami province.
on may 19,1252,when there was an occasion for the prince of yoshimasa ashikaga to give a feast,yasutsuna suggested an appointed time.
on may 30,1252,imperial prince munetaka visited the tsurugaoka hachiman-gu shrine.
yasutsuna accompanied the prince.
on december 20,1252,imperial prince munetaka walked from the residence of the shogun in sagami province where he had stayed to the new imperial palace.
yasutsuna attended the procession.
on december 29,1252,imperial prince munetaka entered the residence of the shogun in mutsu province for the first time since he moved to the new palace.
yasutsuna attended this procession as a higher-ranked servant.
on january 24,1253,imperial prince munetaka visited the tsurugaoka hachiman-gu shrine for the first time since he moved to the new palace.
yasutsuna attended this procession as a higher-ranked servant.
on february 9,1253,the govrnor of mutsu province held a feast to imperial prince munetaka,and yasutsuna presented harness.
on february 27,1253,imperial prince munetaka visited the tsurugaoka hachiman-gu shrine.
yasutsuna attended the procession as a higher-ranked servant.
on january 28,1254,the governor of sagami province held a feast to imperial prince munetaka,and yasutsuna presented harness.
the imperial prince moved to the residence of the shogun in sagami province for the ritual of the first excursion,and yasutsuna accompanied this as a higher-ranked servant.
on january 30,1254,the governor of mutsu province held a feast to imperial prince munetaka and yasutsuna presented harness.
on february 18,1254,munetaka visited the tsurugaoka hachiman-gu shrine.
yasutsuna attended the procession as a higher-ranked servant.
on february 7,1256,toshiuji ashikaga held a feast to imperial prince munetaka and yasutsuna presented harness.
on february 9,1256,the imperial prince moved to the residence of the shogun in sagami province to attend the ritual for the first excursion,and yasutsuna attended the procession as a higher-ranked servant.
since there were burglars around the nakatsumichi kamakura-kaido road(one of the three kamakura-kaido roads)who robbed travelers coming and going from the area,a document for informing people of decisions was issued on july 2,1256,to the military land steward around the area to protect people from such acts.
yasutsuna was one military land steward out of the twenty four to receive the above order.
on july 29,1256,the members including yasutsuna were announced to attend the ritual for releasing the living beings at the tsurugaoka hachiman-gu shrine.
on january 24,1257,the imperial prince moved to the residence of the shogun in sagami province to attend the ritual for the first excursion and yasutsuna accompanied this as a higher-ranked servant.
on january 25,1257,the governor of mutsu province held a feast to imperial prince munetaka,and yasutsuna presented a harness.
on march 20,1257,there was a coming-of-age ceremony for tokimune hojo and yasutsuna presented an arrow.
on april 29,1257,yasutsuna suggested that a kemari meet should be held at the imperial palace.
on may 1,1257,the kemari meet was held and yasutsuna attended as a higher-ranked servant.
after the purification ritual,imperial prince munetaka stood in front of the public in the court nobles' informal clothes.
first yasutsuna passed the prince a smoked ball which was stringed to a maple branch,after which munenori nanba played as an expert player who kicked off the game.
on october 1,1257,imperial prince munetaka attended the ritual for releasing the living beings at the tsurugaoka hachiman-gu shrine.
yasutsuna attended the procession as a higher-ranked servant.
on november 15,1257,imperial prince munetaka attended to the memorial service at the daiji-ji temple and yasutsuna accompanied him as a commoner servant.
on january 14,1258,a fire broke out from the residence of toji no saemon no nyudo,and spread over the wakamiya-oji street and the residences including the yasutsuna's and the nagamasa kazanin's,which were burned down until the fire was put out at dengakuzushi.
on february 12,1258,tokiyori hojo held a feast to imperial prince munetaka,and yasutsuna waited at the western hall.
on february 13,1258,shigetoki hojo held a feast to imperial prince munetaka and yasutsuna presented a harness.
after the feast,the imperial prince moved to the zen room of the residence of the shogun in sagami province to attend the ritual for the first excursion,during which yasutsuna attended as a higher-ranked servant.
on may 30,1258,there was a memorial service held at the shochoju-in temple,and yasutsuna attended the procession of imperial prince munetaka as a higher-ranked servant.
on september 20,1258,imperial prince munetaka attended the ritual for releasing the living beings at the tsurugaoka hachiman-gu shrine.
yasutsuna attended this as a higher-ranked servant.
yasutsuna died on november 24,1261 in kyoto.
he died at the age of 59.
the governor of shimotsuke province,senior fifth rank,lower grade,fujiwara ason.
