chikatomo shionoya
chikatomo shionoya(塩谷親朝,june 15,1194-november 16,1250)was a busho(japanese military commander)of shioya county,shimotsuke province,in the kamakura period.
he was appointed as jugoinoge(junior fifth rank,lower grade),suo no kami(governor of suo province),and minbu taifu(senior assistant minister of popular affairs).
he was the oldest legitimate son of tomonari shionoya.
his siblings were a younger sister who became the legal wife of tajima no kami(governor of tajima province)tsugumasa mashiko,tokitomo kasama,a younger sister who became the legal wife of hitachi no kami(governor of hitachi province)sadamune oda,and tomosada,and his children were yasutomo,tadatsuna,chikatoki kooka,and a daughter who became the legal wife of tomokage kasama.
some documents say his name was tomochika(朝親).
summary
chikatomo was the second-generation head of the shionoya clan.
although he was born as the oldest legitimate son of tomonari shionoya,no documents refer to his succession to the family headship,but as his father tomonari entered into priesthood in march or april of 1220,it is supposed that he succeeded to the family headship at that time.
he worked actively as a gokenin(an immediate vassal of the shogunate in the kamakura and muromachi through edo periods),but on april 12,1240,he made a terrible blunder and he forgot to attend the watch duty,so he was prohibited from serving for the government.
but three years later,on august 11,1243,he was ordered to serve in shifts as an attendant when fujiwara no yoritsune,shogun of the period,went to his office out of schedule.
on april 11,1250,he was ordered to construct nishi-ya(western house)as the person in charge of construction of kanin-dono(kanin palace)in order to construct kanin dairi(shogunate palace),but on november 16 of the same year,he died in kamakura at the age of 57.
his kaimyo(posthumous buddhist name)was ryoun shoyo daizenjomon(涼雲松誉大禅定門).
he was buried in choko-ji temple,the family temple of the shionoya clan.
