mitsuyuki toki
mitsuyuki toki(dates of birth and death unknown)was a samurai in the early kamakura period.
a gokenin(an immediate vassal)of the kamakura shogunate
his real family name is genji.
his family was toki clan,the main line of mino-genji(minamoto clan),which is a branch line of settsu-genji and one of seiwa-genji lines(minamoto clan).
the eldest son of mitsuhira toki
his mother's name is unknown,and his brother is mitsutoki asano.
he was the father of kunihira toki,mitsukazu toki,kuniyoshi toki and mitsusada toki.
his wives include a daughter of the chiba clan.
his rank and titles include jugoi(junior fifth rank),saemon no jo(third-ranked officer of the left division of outer palace guards),hogandai(an administrative official of the retired-emperor's office),and dewa no kami(governor of dewa province).
he was officially called minamoto no mitsuyuki.
following his father,mitsuyuki became a retainer of the kamakura shogunate as the head of the toki clan,but he also had a deep relationship with the imperial court as he lived in kyoto and served as saimen no bushi(the imperial palace guard for the west side)for emperor gotoba.
his name "toki saemon no jo"was mentioned in various places after the year 1216 in "azuma kagami" (the mirrors of the east),a book of records compiled by the side of the kamakura shogunate.
for mitsuyuki's whereabouts in the jokyu war that occurred thereafter,some consider that "toki hogandai" mentioned in the said record as a member of the imperial forces was identified as mitsuyuki and that he sided with kyoto like many samurai in mino province,but there is no definitive explanation on his identity and whereabouts with respect to this record because there is also a persuasive theory that the said "toki hogandai" was somebody else in the same family(such as his brother mitsutoki)and that mitsuyuki himself sided with the shogunate forces considering the fact that mitsuyuki is also mentioned in the same record as "toki saemon no jo" after the jokyu war.
in any case,the toki clan survived the jokyu war and became a powerful vassal in mino after mitsusada.
it is believed that mitsuyuki lived in asano,toki-gun(today's asano,hida-cho,toki city,gifu prefecture),and a memorial tower dedicated to him exists in the compound of eisho-ji temple at asano.
