kagenori nire
kagenori nire(april 6,1831-november 22,1900)was a samurai at the end of the edo period and a navy officer in the meiji period.
he was a vice admiral,shonii(senior second rank)kun itto(the first order of merit),and a viscount.
he was commonly known as 'gennojo.'
personal history
in 1831,he was born a son of a retainer of satsuma domain.
when the sakuhei gate incident took place,and aizu domain,which served as kyoto shugoshoku(military governor of kyoto),raided on the house of shinbei tanaka,a suspected mastermind of the incident,kagenori nire,who met with shinbei tanaka,and his servant taro were arrested and detained.
his charge was cleared later,and he was acquitted.
he fought the anglo-satsuma war of the same year.
in 1867,he was dispatched to the united states to study there,upon the decree of the lord of the domain.
in 1872,he joined the minister of the navy and was assigned to a major.
later,he held various naval posts such as the principal of the navy academy,the commander-in-chief of the tokai chinjuzu(defense headquarters),the commander of the middle-level fleets,and the director of the military affairs bureau.
in 1885,he became a vice admiral.
from 1886,he held various naval posts such as the vice-chief of the staff headquarters,the head of the navy staff headquarters,the commander-in-chief of the yokosuka chinjufu,and the principal of the naval staff college.
in 1892,he was assigned to minister of the navy by the second ito cabinet.
he devoted himself to the buildup of navy armaments.
he tried hard to transfer military command right from the army staff headquarters to the navy.
in 1893,the military command section was set up,but it was abolished soon afterwards due to objections from the army.
facing accusations by political parties and civil officers of his lack of passion for navy reforms,kagenori announced his resignation.
his resignation was accepted by hirobumi ito,who wanted to pursue navy reforms,a policy pledge at the preceding imperial decree,and tried to headhunt tsugumichi saigo,kaito(party leader)of the opposite nation association.
nire was transferred to the squads of reserved soldiers.
in 1893,he was assigned to a privy councilor.
in 1896,he was transferred to the club of veterans.
he died at the age of 69.
court rank and bestowal of order
on june 29,1893,he was conferred the grand cordon of the order of the sacred treasure
on july 7,1884,he was created viscount.
on november 21,1900,he was conferred the grand cordon of the order of the rising sun.
family
his third son,kageo nire,was an entomologist.
his daughter haruko married prime minister makoto saito.
