tamekazu sawa
tamekazu sawa(1812-1889)was kugyo(a court noble)who lived from the end of the edo period to the beginning of the meiji period.
his official court rank was sangi(councilor),gaimukyo(chief of foreign ministry)and viscount in ikai(court rank).
biography
his father was kazuyuki sawa ason(second highest of the eight hereditary titles)of jibusho(the ministry of civil administration).
in 1821 he was given a court rank.
in 1825 he celebrated his attainment of manhood and became shogoinoge(senior fifth rank,lower grade)武蔵兼介.
in 1848 he was promoted to jusanmi(junior third rank).
in 1836,jushiijo(junior fourth rank,upper grade)minbusho(ministry of popular affairs).
in 1848,shosanmi(senior third rank).
in 1855,junii(junior second rank).
in 1858 he joined teishin hachiju-hachi kyo ressan jiken(demo of eighty-eight retainers of imperial court)with his adopted son nobuyoshi sawa and opposed the imperial sanction of the treaty of amity and commerce between the united states and japan.
after that,he retired from an official position because of poor health.
in the boshin war,he was recommended for the governor-general of ou chinbushi(temporary government post)in february 1868 and joined the war as the vice governor-general after michitaka kujo was assigned to the governor-general.
he moved from place to place in ou to fight and returned triumphantly in october.
in june 1868,he was given 200 koku(crop yields)as permanent shotenroku(premiums)for his military exploit.
in august of the same year,he was assigned to宮内権大丞,but he retired in november 1869 and passed over the family estate to nobuyoshi.
however,nobuyoshi died in september 1872,so he succeeded the family estate again and was conferred junii in september 1882 with special consideration.
on july 7,1873,he was conferred viscount by the peerage law.
in 1878 he died.
before he died,he was conferred shonii(senior second rank).
the sawa family was promoted to a count later.
remarks
it is said that the forefather of the sawa family was imperial prince toneri,the prince of emperor tenmu.
