tomonojo oshima
tomonojo oshima(july 27,1826-august 9,1882)was a samurai warrior,a feudal retainer and a diplomat of the tsushimafuchu clan.
immediately after the meiji restoration,oshima had a part in a japan-korea negotiation.
real name was masatomo(it was not used in daily life)
career
since tsushima domain having financial difficulties during the last days of tokugawa shogunate,oshima made every effort at monetary support.
in the course of his attempt,in may 1863,he had an interview with hokoku yamada,an adviser of katsukiyo itakura who was a senior councilor of the tokugawa shogunate.
yamada had advocated expanding military activities to the chinese continent,so at this interview he preached to oshima that 'you should blame joseon dynasty for their breach of contract to conquer them.'
under yamada's influence,oshima began to advocate seikanron(an opinion to dispatch military forces to korea).
in 1864 oshima submitted a petition to expand military activities to korea.
and oshima influenced his friend kogoro katsura(takayoshi kido),and later as katsura rose up to a high-ranking officer,as a result,oshima's opinion came to have greater influence on the political situation.
on november 9,1867 taisei hokan(restoration of imperial rule).
before taisei hokan,the edo bakufu had decided to dispatch an envoy to mediate the dispute between korea and britain/france.
on november 26,oshima was at the post of kyoto rusui-yaku officer(a post representing the master during his absence).
after entrusted by yoshinobu tokugawa with the paper that said 'dispatch the mission as scheduled' oshima conveyed the effect to sanenaru ogimachi-sanjo.
on may 27,1868 yoshiakira so,the lord of tsushima domain,submitted a petition to the government.
after explained their relationship to korea,they made an appeal to the government for reforms in relationship between japan and korea and supports for tsushima domain.
having an interview with kiyokado komatsu the officer of foreign affairs council,oshima discussed diplomacy reforms and requested monetary support for tsushima domain.
although his all requests were rejected at the time,oshima remade the petition to the government.
as a part of their requests,loan of daijokan-satsu(the first japanese paper money issued during the early meiji period)was approved.
since oshima at this time was no longer an advocate for the seikanron,he maintained establishment of diplomatic relations without military action.
in the early february 1869,oshima(he had been assigned to the senior officer of tsushima domain due to the office organization reform)was dispatched to choryang-dong wakan(consular office in korea)to inspect the situation of korea.
oshima took part in the japan-korea negotiation which had come to an impasse due to the issues on hold and shokei(form of the letters used in negotiations)problems laid down japanese-korea treaty of amity.
although oshima had an interview with dong-jun ahn(安東晙),korean counterpart,requesting him to accept sovereign's message,dong-jun ahn firmly rejected the acceptance.
on april 22,1869 oshima returned tsushima from choryang-dong wakan.
on june 22,1869 due to a standstill in the japan-korea negotiation,the government became impatient and suggested the requisition for the negotiation rights to tsushima domain.
if carried out,that is to say,the reform of the relationship between japan-korea by tsushima domain would be concluded as a failure.
and for this reason,the government might reject financial support for tsushima domain.
to avoid this,with accounting for the course of the negotiation,oshima emphasized that the blame for the standstill in the negotiation rested with korea rather than tsushima domain.
he submitted a paper that said korean political situation was so hard to predict and very complicated that there was no chance to conclude the treaty unless tsushima domain took charge of.
afterward since the government conducted hanseki hokan(return of lands and people to the emperor)and formation of ministry of foreign affairs,tsushima domain was confronted with the requisition for the negotiation right again.
but,as a result of complaint,tsushima domain(on september 12,1869,changed its name to "izuhara domain")was continuously entrusted with the japan-korea negotiation.
in may 1870,oshima informally notified "totai ron(literally,theory of equivalent)" to yu urase(translator).
"totai ron" had content that was that once accept korean's claim,accomplishing the purpose of diplomatic relations in the form of old shokei then restart discussion.
using the paper as a guidance,urase negotiated with the korean side and grasped a feeling that he was in favor of dong-jun ahn.
but,helta incident occurred at the same time.
the negotiation came to a deadlock again.
on august 29,1871,as the government decreed haihan-chiken(abolition of feudal domains and establishment of prefectures),ieyaku(low-ranking farmer or apprentice)of governor shigemasa mune(yoshitatsu's new name)were to be dismissed.
since dissatisfied with the dismissal,on september 7 oshima had a talk with hironobu hirotsu of ministry of foreign affairs(father of広津柳浪a writer).
hirotsu proposed to appoint shigemasa to be gaimu-taijo(post of foreign ministry)and dispatch him to korea,oshima assented to the proposal.
shigemasa to be gaimu-taijo(post of foreign ministry),oshima to be an official of foreign ministry,they were both appointed the posts,and were ordered to go to korea.
but,they never dispatched to korea.
due to successive replacement of minister of foreign affairs,the korean issue was left on hold for while.
after a while the dispatch was canceled due to objections against the plan.
masaki aira was sent to korea in place of shigemasa on the other hand,on february 6 1872 oshima was dismissed the post in ministry of foreign affairs.
