yoshiyuki yamana
yoshiyuki yamana(date of birth and death unknown)was a shugo daimyo(shugo,which were japanese provincial military governors,that became daimyo,which were japanese feudal lords)in the period of the northern and southern courts(japan).
he became the earliest ancestor of the hino yakata family(hino yamana family).
career
yoshiyuki was born as the eldest child of moroyoshi yamana and became shugo of tanba no kuni in 1375.
when his father moroyoshi died in 1376,he refrained to succeed the family estate because he was feeble.
in 1379,he was appointed to be shugo of izumo province and oki province after takahide sasaki fell;as a result he became shugo of three provinces including tanba.
also in december of the same year it is confirmed he was involved in the politics of the central government as samurai-dokoro tonin(governor of the board of retainer)of muromachi bakufu.
in addition he went to fight with ujikiyo yamana and tokiyoshi yamana to hunt down and kill yoriyuki hosokawa in january 1380.
however such energetic activity gradually became a load for sickly yoshiyuki,and he resigned from shugoshiki of the three provinces including tanba in 1381 and left to hoki province.
after he left from the capital,he retired to a territory in hino county of hoki province.
there is an opinion that he resided in doi castle of matano deep in the mountains of hino.
it is unknown in what year and at what age he died.
afterwards his son moroyuki yamana and descendants continued to govern hino county and became to be called "hino yakata".
yamana totomi no kami(the governor of totomi province),a son of mochiyuki yamana,the third family head,governed hossho-ji temple,aimi county,and owned territories around nishi hoki other than hino county.
in the sengoku period(period of warring states)(japan),he acted from shoyama-jo castle(kameiyama-jo castle).
after fujiyuki yamana was killed by kagemori miya in the eiroku era,an adopted child kageyuki hino(kageyuki yamana)succeeded the family estate and started to bear the name of "hino".
