tajihi no shima
tajihi no shima(624-september 2,701)was a noble in the asuka period.
his father was prince tajihi no hiko.
his mother was unknown.
his brother was tajihi no miyakemaro and his children included tajihi no ikemori,tajihi no mizumori,tajihi no hironari,tajihi no hirotari and tajihi.
family tree
he was the grandchild of the fourth generation(great-great-grandson)of the emperor senka.
the tajihi clan prospered as the middle-ranking noble in the nara period with the promotion of his child,ikemori to dainagon(a chief councilor of state)and others.
it broke down after the heian period,but shinshu who was the great-great-grandson of shima had imperial prince kazurawara with the emperor kanmu and its blood line was led to kanmu-heishi(taira clan).
one of theories is that tanto which was one of musashi-shichito parties active in the kamakura period came from the tajihi clan.
ancestors.
the emperor keitai-the emperor senka-kamitsuueha no miko-prince tochi-prince tajihi no hiko-tajihi no shima
summary
though he is said to have been born in suiko dynasty,he went mainstream of the history late,around 682 in tenmu dynasty.
in yakusa no kabane(the eight honorary titles)system in 684,shima who was the direct descendant of the emperor senka with its blood led to imperial family(ishihime no himemiko,the great-great-grandmother of the emperor tenmu was imperial princess of the emperor senka and the sister of shima's great-grandfather)was awarded the highest-ranking mahito.
though the emperor tenmu applied tenno sippe politics(pro-imperial family politics)without minister's posts,shima promoted to udaijin(minister of the right)which had not been occupied since nakatomi no kane who was punished in the jinshin war when the emperor tenmu died and his empress,uno no sarara no himemiko ascended the throne as the emperor jito,ruling without official accession to the chrysanthemum throne in 690.
he was posted in the highest rank as a vassal following daijo-daijin(grand minister)and takechi no miko/prince takechi and was then posted in the highest rank in the vassals due to the death of takechi no miko in 696.
he became shonii(senior second rank)and sadaijin(minister of the left)in 701,but soon he died.
it was just before the establishment of taiho ritsuryo(taiho code).
ishizukuri no miko who was one of nobles proposing for marriage to kaguya-hime(princess kaguya)appeared in taketori monogatari(the tale of the bamboo cutter)is said to be modeled on shima.
besides,mr.susumu nakanishi argued that shima could be the patron of kakinomoto no hitomaro who is historically famous and known as a court poet.
shima who died after dainagon(a chief councilor of state)otomo no miyuki died in the beginning of that year was replaced with abe no miushi serving as udaijin the highest-ranking vassal for a while,but abe no miushi also soon died.
roshins(main retainers)who had been active since tenmu dynasty left one after another,for example,isonokami no maro who promoted to sadaijin following shima was also pushed into the proxy governor of fujiwara-kyo(the imperial capital of japan for sixteen years between 694 and 710)in transferring of the national capital to heijo,and fujiwara no fuhito built the first golden age of the fujiwara clan(in nagayao no hen(conspiracy of nagayao),his son,ikemori aligned with fujiwara four brothers who were the sons of fuhito to reject nagayao.)
