tadanori ueno
tadanori ueno(1581-year of death unknown)was a military commander from the azuchi-momoyama to edo periods.
he was a retainer of the shimazu clan.
his childhood name was chiyotaro.
his name after attaining manhood was hikokuro.
hatyatonosuke
his buddhist name was宗秋.
the child of tadamoto ueno
biography
he was born as a son of tadamoto hayatonosuke ueno(hayatonosuke:an official post name written as隼人左or隼人佑),who belonged to yoshida-shuju.
tadamoto killed shigetaka mera in 'the battle of kizakibaru' in 1572 and he was nominated in a conference prior to the attack against 'chikushu chikugan takatori-jo castle' in 1586 to one of the five superintendent officers overseeing mazakiin squires group which was subject to yoshihiro shimazu but lost his life in this battle.
tadanori celebrated his attainment of manhood before yoshihiro shimazu on december 10,1594,and assumed the name hikokuro ueno.
five days later he was dispatched to a place called kurino but soon moved to suki-mura village based on shuju rule(the shimazu clan's rule for locality-based grouping of squires)and became an official serving shigeari murao,the local head person of suki area.
suki was an important crossroads for traffic of every direction leading to various provinces,where he undertook the safeguarding of the area against robber gangs and tsujigiri(killing in the street to test a new sword).
tadanori took the field at the time of 'the battle of shonai' (1599)accompanying shigeari murao and his son shigemasa murao.
the suki soldiers,being divided into two groups-one led by tadanori and the other by takeyasu sakasegawa-laid siege to yamada-jo castle(hyuga province,today's miyazaki prefecture)which surrendered in 10 hours.
tadanori rendered distinguished military service at the time of penetrating into the castle.
tadanori and sakasegawa held a post of construction magistrate in yamada-jo castle until tadazane ijuin gave in.
when yoshihiro returned from 'the battle of sekigahara' in 1600,tadanori went to yatsushiro(today's kunitomi-cho,higashimorogata-gun)to meet him together with a company of 130 soldiers from the suki area led by shigeari murao and his son.
on their way back,in kiwaki(today's kunitomi-cho),they attacked gimon-ji temple where a defense troop of shigemasa inazu,a subordinate of the ito clan,was deployed.
tadanori performed a meritorious deed of killing the enemy general yasuke kariyahara in cooperation with shigemasa murao.
tadanori wrote 'ueno hayato oboegaki' (notes of hayato ueno)in 1653 when he was 73.
