fujiwara no toshinobu
fujiwara no toshinobu(1055-february 24,1105)was a noble and scholar in the late heian period.
he was the second son of fujiwara no masaie,udaiben(major controller of the right)of the hino line.
his original name was iemichi.
shogoi(senior fifth rank),benkan(oversight department:division of the daijokan responsible for controlling central and provincial governmental offices)
in 1091,he was granted jugoinojo(junior fifth rank,upper grade)in recognition of his services as a member of the palace staff during the eiho period.
later he was granted shogoinoge(senior fifth rank,lower grade)in 1097 after serving as dainaiki(senior secretary of the ministry of central affairs).
in the following year,he was given a position in emonfu(headquarters of the outer palace guards).
in 1099,an incident occurred in which his servant on guard had deprived of the criminals by their accomplices(according to "gonijo moromichi ki" (diary of fujiwara no moromichi)).
however,he was given an additional post of ushoben(minor controller of the right)in the same year,and further obtained a post of monjo hakase(professor of literature)in the following year.
in 1103,he accepted the post of investiture of the crown prince and further concurrently took the post of togu gakushi(teacher of the classics of the crown prince)(when the crown prince was 7 months old).
when the era name changed in the following year,he submitted kiden kanmon jointly with sugawara no ariyoshi,in consideration of which 'choji' was adopted.
(for reference,the former era name of 'kowa' was adopted in consideration of his father masaie's suggestion.)
in 1105,he died from a disease before his father.
he was appointed an instructor in a composition group led by fujiwara no morosane and fujiwara no moromichi,parent and son.
in addition,he accompanied fujiwara no tadazane in his first visit to hojo-ji temple after assumption of the office of toshi choja(head of the fujiwara clan).
these show great trust in him although he was not keishi(household superintendent)of sekkan-ke(the families which produced regents).
