hisanao oshima
hisanao oshima(october 1,1848-september 27,1928)was a military man of imperial japanese army(ija)and a peerage.
he successively served as military councilor,general office director of education,chief of imperial guard division and so on,and his official rank was army general,ranks and orders,the order of the golden kite,viscount.
career
he was born as the second-born son of hisaakira oshima,a feudal retainer of akita and a grand master of the art of the spearmanship.
after taking part in boshi war,in april 1870,he was assigned to the 3rd battalion,then appointed as first lieutenant of army for the first time in may 1871.
in november of the same year,he went on to captain,then in the following year,fukukan(adjutant)of the 7th battalion,in 1874,chief of the 2nd infantry regiment,and in december,1875 after promoted to major,he was appointed as staff officer of chindai(garrison in meiji era)in tokyo.
in seinan war of 1877,he took part in the campaign as daitaicho(battalion chief)of the 1st infantry regiment of the 4th stand-alone brigade.
after the war,he successively served as staff officer of chindai in tokyo and vice-chief of general administration office,then in october 1882,he assumed office as commander of tokyo eiju(one of government general of imperial army),in june 1883,chief of the 11th infantry regiment and in april 1887,colonel of the army.
in april,1889 he assumed office as chief of the 3rd infantry regiment for imperial guard,in june,principal of rikugun daigakko(the army war college),then was promoted to army major general to be appointed as chief of the 5th infantry brigade.
after serving as the chief staff officer of kangunbu(an organization of japanese army),in november,1893,moved to chief of the 6th infantry brigade,and at this time,he departed to the front of sino-japanese war.
after the war,he served as department director of military government of taiwan sotoku-fu,then the chief staff officer of the above army and executive secretary of military affairs bureau of the army concurrently.
on august 20th,1895 he was given the title of baron for his achievement in the sino-japanese war,and ranked with peerage.
also,on the same day,he received the order of the golden kite in the 3rd class.
in april,1896 he assumed office as principal of rikugun daigakko(the army war college)in succession to naobumi tatsumi,and in june of the same year,moved to chief of the 12th infantry brigade.
in april of the following year,he was back to the post of principal of rikugun daigakko,then in october,1898 it was succeeded by arisawa ueda.
oshima was promoted to first lieutenant of japanese army and was appointed as chief of the 9th shidan(division)(japanese army)newly formed.
in 1903 he received a medal for merit,the order of the sacred treasure.
in russo-japanese war in 1904,he took part in lushun war for capture and battle of mukden,belonging to the 3rd army(japanese army)led by army general,maresuke nogi.
in april,1906 he received the grand cordon of the order of the rising sun and the order of the golden kite in the 2nd class for his achievements in the war.
in may,he moved on to army general,and in july,moved to chief of imperial guard division.
in september,1907 his rank advanced to viscount,and in 1908 he assumed office as general office director of education,one of three directors of japanese army.
after serving as military councilor in 1911,he was incorporated in reserve duty,then retired in 1918.
passed away on september 27,1928.
on the same day,received grand cordon of the order of the rising sun with paulownia flower.
family
his heir,hisatada osako(army war college〔japan〕in the 23rd class,colonel of the army)
his 7th-born son,suguru osako(army war college〔japan〕in the 31st class,colonel of the army)
his elder brother,hisanobu oshima(colonel of the army)
residence
the residence oshima had built in november,1910 was sold to jochi gakuin foundation in march to be used as a school building,but it was pulled down in july,1976.
