tadahiro konoe
tadahiro konoe(september 4,1808-march 18,1898)was a court noble in the end of edo period.
he acted as kobu-gattai(integration of the imperial court and the shogunate).
he was also referred to as suizan.
his father was motosaki konoe,and his mother was kotohime,the daughter of munechika tokugawa.
he had a close relationship with the domain of satsuma,and ikuhime,the lawful wife of tadahiro was the daughter of narioki shimazu,the lord of satsuma domain(in fact she was the daughter of narinobu shimazu,the former lord of the domain).
tenshoin,the adopted daughter of nariakira shimazu married with iesada tokugawa,syogun after she was adopted by tadahiro.
tadafusa konoe was his son.
career
he became sadaijin(minister of the left)in 1857,but he lost his position at ansei no taigoku(suppression of extremists by the shogunate);then he tonsured and stayed home for being on the side of the hitotsubashi family in the conflict over the successor of the tokugwa shogun family before ansei no taigoku.
he came back and served as kanpaku(chief adviser to the emperor)and nairan(a preliminary inspection of official documents submitted from the great council of state to the emperor)in 1862;he resigned as kanpaku in the following year due to the emergence of sonno joi(19th century slogan advocating reverence for the emperor and the expulsion of foreigners).
ever since then,he distanced himself from the meiji new government,and kept living in kyoto dedicating himself towards bringing up his grandson,atsumaro konoe though most of court nobles moved to tokyo after the transfer of capital.
it was in 1878 when he finally accepted emperor meiji's repeated invitations and moved to tokyo after the death of his son,tadafusa.
career as an official
*date:indicated in old calendar until december 31,1872
in 1816
on march 24,he went through genpuku ceremony,and was appointed to jugoinojo(junior fifth rank,upper grade).
he was allowed kinjiki(literally, "forbidden colours," seven colours tradionally reserved for the imperial family and nobility)and enter into the imperial court.
on march 29,he was assigned to sakone gon no shosho(provisional minor captain of the left division of inner palace guards).
on april 25,he was nominated as jushiinoge(junior forth rank,lower grade),and retained his position as sakone gon no shosho.
on september 14,he was transferred to sakone gon no chujo(provisional middle captain of the left division of inner palace guards).
on february 13,1817,he was nominated as shoshiinoge(senior fourth rank,lower grade),and retained his position as sakone gon no chujo.
in 1817
on april 22,he was nominated as jusanmi(junior third rank),and retained his position as sakone gon no chujo.
on january 27,1818,he was transferred to gon chunagon(provisional middle counselor),and retained his position as sakone gon no chujo.
on october 5,1819,he was transferred to gon dainagon(provisional major counselor).
on september 7,1821,he was nominated as shosanmi(senior third rank),and retained his position as gon dainagon.
on april 26,1823,he was nominated as junii(junior second rank),and retained his position as gon dainagon.
in 1824
on february 6,he took additional posts as sakone no daisho(major captain of the left division of inner palace guards)and samaryo gogen(inspector of the samaryo,left division of bureau of horses).
on june 30,he was nominated as shonii(senior second rank),and retained his position as gon dainagon,sakone no daisho,and samaryo gogen.
on july 24,he was transferred to naidaijin(the minister of the center),and retained his position as sakone no daisho,and samaryo gogen.
in 1834
on july 11,he was nominated as juichii(junior first rank),and retained his position as naidaijin,sakone no daisho,and samaryo gogen.
on october 24,he resigned as sakone no daisho,and samaryo gogen.
on may 15,1840,he assumed an additional post as togu no fu(an official in charge of education of the crown prince)of the crown prince(imperial prince osahito,future emperor komei).
on march 10,1846,he left the position as togu no fu due to emperor komei's accession to the throne.
on july 26,1847,he was transferred to udaijin(minister of the right).
on january 29,1857,he was transferred to sadaijin(minister of the left).
in 1858
on october 10,he was appointed to nairan(a preliminary inspection of official documents submitted from the great council of state to the emperor).
retained his position as sadaijin(minister of the left).
on november 24,he resigned as nairan.
in 1859
on april 30,he resigned as sadaijin.
on november 13,he became a priest.
in 1862
on july 3,he returned to secular life,and was appointed to juichii(junior first rank).
on july 19,he was appointed to kanpaku,nairan,toshi choja(head of the fujiwara clan),the top rank.
in 1863
on march 12,he resigned as kanpaku,toshi choja(head of the fujiwara clan),the top rank,and retained his position as nairan.
on may 12,he resigned as nairan.
in march,1885,he was appointed to the first order of merit.
on march 18,1898,he passed away at the age of 91.
on march 17,1904,he wa awarded shoichii(senior first rank).
