tameyo nijo
tameyo nijo(1250-september 26,1338)was a kajin(poet for japanese poetry),who lived from the end of kamakura to the beginning of the northern and southern courts periods.
his father was the tameuji nijo,who was the pioneer of the nijo school of kado(the art of japanese poetry).
his mother was the daughter of norisada asukai.
his children were tamemichi nijo,tamefuji nijo,tamemune nijo,tamemi nijo(二条為躬),tamefuyu nijo,fujiwara no tameko(the miyabito(the person who served the imperial court)of the emperor godaigo),shokunmonin kasuga no tsubone(the official wife of sanehira saionji),muromachiin dainagon no tsubone,and fujiwara no kanenobu's wife.
since his highest rank was gon dainagon(provisional chief councilor of state),he was also called todainagon.
career
he became the sangi(royal advisor)in 1282 and became the gon dainagon with the rank of shonii(senior second rank).
he became the close servant to the emperor(later the southern court)daikakuji-to(imperial lineage starting with emperor kameyama)and greatly opposed tamekane kyogoku,who became the close servant to the emperor fushimi of jimyoin-to(imperial lineage from the emperor gofukakusa to emperor gokomatsu)(of the later northern court).
under the command of emperor gouda(father of emperor godaigo)in 1303,he collected and presented the "shin gosen wakashu" (new later collection of japanese poems,thirteenth imperial poetic anthology).
he fought with tamekane for the position of editor of the collection of poems selected under the imperial order,and tameyo lost while tamekane was chosen to collect and edit poems for "gyokuyo wakashu" (jeweled leaves collection,fourteenth imperial anthology).
he selected and presented the "shoku senzai wakashu" (collection of a thousand years continued,fifteenth imperial poetic anthology)to the retired emperor gouda in 1320.
he raised joben,tonna,kenko yoshida,and keiun of common blood as his pupils and completed the style of waka as the master of nijo school.
he became the buddhist priest and gained the homyo(dharma name)of meiyu in 1329.
he passed away at the age of eighty-nine on september 26,1338.
there are 'tameyo shu' (collection of tameyo)(selected by later generations).
the actual writing of tameyo,which passed down over different generations were a few pages of short booklets as well as the separated pieces of writing, "gojo-gire" (fragment of the gojo edition).
there was also a debate concerning waka, "waka teikin" (waka lessons).
he gathered a many collections of poems ordered by the emperor such as "shoku shui wakashu" (collection of gleanings of japanese poems continued,twelfth imperial poetic anthology),self collected poems such as the "shoku genyo wakashu" (anthology of waka poems compiled by tameyo nijo),and teisuka poems such as "kagen sento onhyakushu" (one-hundred poem sequences compiled in kagen era)and "bunpo onhyakushu" (one-hundred poem sequences compiled in bunpo era).
his waka style respected simple and pure beauty and evoked a waka full of charm.
