minamoto no morotada
minamoto no morotada(1054-october 25,1114)was a court noble in the late heian period.
murakami-genji(minamoto clan).
he was the fourth son of tsuchimikado udaijin(minister of the right)minamoto no morofusa and his mother was the daughter of udaijin fujiwara no yorimune.
he was a half brother to minamoto no toshifusa,minamoto no akifusa and minamoto no reishi.
his legal wife was the daughter of tachibana no toshitsuna,and also married the daughter of minamoto no toshinaga and the daughter of fujiwara no yoshitsuna.
his biological children include minamoto no morotaka,minamoto no morochika,minamoto no moronaga,kampen,the wife of imperial prince sukehito,the wife of minamoto no morotoki.he made minamoto no morotoshi(toshifusa's son)his foster child.
he was called mibu dainagon or sawa dainagon.
in 1064,he was appointed jugoinoge(junior fifth rank,lower grade)on the day he held his coming-to-age ceremony and after being chamberlain,konoefu(the headquarters of the inner palace guards)and kon no gon no chujo,he was appointed togubo(crown prince's quarters of imperial prince sadahito(later emperor shirakawa))gon no suke(provisional assistant master).
in 1072,at the same time when emperor shirakawa ascended the throne,he became kurodo no to(head chamberlain),
in 1074,he became sangi and was appointed to gon chunagon and then gon dainagon.
meanwhile he also held the positions of emonfu(headquarters of the outer palace guards),kebiishi no betto(superintendent of the imperial police),kotaigo gushiki(imperial household agency employee assigned to the household of queen mother),and chugushiku(office of imperial wives).
later,when emperor shirakawa abdicated the throne,he was appointed as inshi(official of the in no cho,or retired emperor's office).
he became dainagon in 1100,but the relationship with cloistered emperor shirakawa worsened because he was the father-in-law of imperial prince sukehito and he retired in 1106.
on september 25,1114,he became a monk and died the same day.
he was 61.
