takeo nakajima
takeo nakajima(1947-)is a japanese environmental designer.
he is a professor of department of design of college of art and design of joshibi university of art and design,and fine arts course of graduate school of art and design of joshibi university of art and design.
he majors in environmental design,religious space,landscape,and planning.
born in tokyo.
graduated from department of design of faculty of fine arts of tokyo national university of fine arts and music(the present name:tokyo university of the arts),majored in industrial design.
completed his doctoral course in department of fine arts of tokyo national university of fine arts and music,majored in design(doctor of philosophy).
he was in tokyo national university of fine arts and music and joshibi university of art and design as an assistant professor,and then assumed the present post.
having been ambitious to be an automotive designer,he went on to tokyo national university of fine arts and music,but as he became more aware that japanese society had an environmental pollution issue,he decided to seek a career in environmental design.
thereafter,he had been advocating what the ecology design is.
he participated in a landscape gardening business at katsura imperial villa(or,katsura detached palace)and shugakuin imperial villa(or,shugakuin detached palace)in kyoto and studied the precincts of buddhist temples,while designing many gardens in japan and overseas.
he has presented many papers on religious space and temple architecture.
important works
developed western tableware for noritake co.,limited(1984-1990).
landscaped hakone prince hotel lakeside lodge(present lakeside annex)(1985).
designed the central square in the yamada spa(1986).
designed the garden in the official residence of the japanese ambassador to singapore(1988).
formed idea conception of shenzhen resort in china(1988).
planned for improving landscape of the minami alps kaido(highway)(1990).
planned for improving the precincts of ryogoku eko-in temple(1991).
made a fundamental plan for improving landscape of trails on mount fuji in kawaguchiko town(1993).
designed the tea garden in the imadegawa residence(1993).
designed the garden in the residence of momoki(1994).
designed the garden in the residence of miyake(1994).
formed a plan of shokawa hometown village in okuhida(1995).
did display design of mikimoto in ginza(1996-1997).
planned an emergency tower with multiple functions product(1998).
formed a plan of artwork in tokyo keiba-jo(tokyo racecourse)(1999).
planned landscape of the spa at minara(1999).
planned landscape of the haruno hot spring(2000).
formed a plan of improving the precincts of nikkoin ichikawa betsu-in(2000).
"my environmental design"for the exhibition of works of joshibi university teachers held for the commemoration of the centennial of the foundation of joshibi university of art and design(2000).
made a fundamental plan for landscape of the sano hot spring(2002).
designed the garden in the residence of nagashima(2003).
planned landscape of a spa at miyazaki seagaia(2003).
made a fundamental plan for the residence of kameda(2004).
prize winning history
midori no dezain taisho(greenery design grand pri)(1992)
japan's good design award(emergency tower with multiple functions)(1999)
