kintsumu ogimachisanjo
kintsumu ogimachisanjo(october 23,1721-july 6,1777)was a kugyo(court noble)during the middle edo period.
he was a retainer of the imperial court who mainly served three emperors:emperor nakamikado(114th),emperor sakuramachi(115th),and emperor momozono(116th).
the last official rank he received was junii gon dainagon(a provisional chief councillor of state in the junior second rank);the court rank he was posthumously conferred was juichii(junior first rank).
his father was sanehiko ogimachisanjo,ukone no chujo(a middle captain of the right division of inner palace guards).
his mother was not known.
his wife was a daughter of kintomi sanjonishi,gon dainagon.
his sons were sanetomo ogimachisanjo,gon chunagon(a provisional vice-councilor of state)and sanebumi hanazono,gon dainagon.
his daughter was chikako ogimachisanjo(nyobo[a court lady]of the empress,the imperial princess yoshiko).
he was conferred a peerage in 1725.
after that,he was gradually promoted from the member of palace staff to sakone no shosho(minor captain of the left division of inner palace guards),togu gon no suke(provisional assistant master of the crown prince's quarters)and sakone no chujo(middle captain of the left division of inner palace guards),and in 1743,he became sangi(councillor)which raised his position to kugyo status.
he resigned as sangi in 1745.
after being gon chunagon,toka no sechie geben(a kugyo who supervised many matters outside jomei gate at the imperial court ceremony called toka no sechie),and dazai no gon no sochi(administrative head of daizaifu in kyushu),he became gon dainagon in 1754.
however,he was forced to resign in 1758 because he was implicated in the horeki incident,the oppression by the bakufu.
after this incident,even emperor momozono,who highly valued him as a close adviser,had to resign his governmental post due to the pressure from the bakufu.
in 1760,kintsumu was even forced to become a priest;he was completely separated from the imperial court until his death.
however,after the fall of tokugawa shogunate,he restored his damaged reputation together with other associates of this incident.
furthermore,his great achievement of loyalty to the emperor was appreciated and awarded juichii(junior first rank)by emperor meiji.
