oama no arakama
oama no arakama(date of birth and death unknown)was a person who lived during the asuka period.
his name is written as凡海麁鎌or大海蒭蒲.
in the old japanese syllabary system,oama(凡海or大海)is pronounced 'ohoama,' 'ohoshiama' or 'ohosama.'
his kabane(hereditary title)was muraji(one of the two highest such titles,later demoted to seventh highest of eight)and later changed to sukune(third highest of the eight).
he was involved in the upbringing of prince oama(later emperor tenmu)and was sent to mutsu province for metallurgical work in 701.
his ikai(court rank)was tsuidaishi(the thirty-ninth grade of tsuidai rank for vassals of the forty-eight grades of cap rank,which corresponds to juhachiinoge,junior eighth rank,lower grade of taiho ritsuryo,taiho code)in 701.
achievement
the oshiama clan was based in settsu province.
it is presumed that prince oama was named after oama as he was involved in the prince's rearing.
in january,684,50 clans with the kabane muraji were given the title sukune.
the oama clan was among the 50,and therefore,arakama's kabane should have also changed at this time.
the name arakama appears twice in historical records.
he is mentioned in the article of september 27,686 of "nihonshoki" (chronicles of japan)and in the article of march 15,701 of "shoku nihongi" (chronicle of japan continued).
on september 27,686,a number of government officials delivered shinobigoto(eulogies)in the garden of mogari(funeral)where emperor tenmu,who passed on the 9th of the same month was laid to rest.
the first among them was oshiama no sukune arakama,who reflected upon mibu.
mibu means education or nurturing.
judging from this situation,it can be assumed that he was not in a position of raising the prince,but was rather a foster brother who was raised alongside the prince,or a representative of the family who expressed his grief.
on may 1,701,he was sent to mutsu province for metallurgical work.
no reports were made on the matter,until many years later in 749,when the mutsu province made the first gold offering,causing quite a stir.
it can be assumed that arakama was not successful in his work.
arakama's date of birth is unknown,but assuming that he and emperor tenmu were close in age,he had to have been around 70 at the time.
this is the reason why it is difficult to assume that he was responsible in raising prince oama.
