mitsunori isshiki
mitsunori isshiki(1368-january 25,1409)was a son of the family head of the isshiki clan,akinori isshiki.
he was hyobu-shoyu(junior assistant minister of the hyobusho ministry of military),meryo(caretaker of imperial horses),and shuri-no-daibu(master of the office of palace repairs).
his sons were yoshitsura isshiki,mochinori isshiki,and mochinobu isshiki.
he and his father were distinguished in military service during meitoku war and helped uplift the position of the isshiki clan in bakufu(japanese feudal government headed by a shogun);then in january of 1392,he was appointed as military governor of tango province.
he and his father built takebeyama-jo castle(maizuru city);they made tango province their foodhold,and in oei war,they defeated hiroshige ouchi and firmly established their position as the nucleus of bakufu.
mitsunori's success led him to rule over land such as tango province and mikawa province;he became a dominant shugo guardian feudal lord holding three provinces,and established the height of power for the isshiki family.
in june 1406,his father akinori died;on november 20,1406,only a little while after mitsunori succeeded the family estate,nagaharu ogasawara,the provincial governor of mikawa province(the hazu-ogasawara clan),and his son nagayori were captured in mitsunori's residence in kyoto,and were imprisoned in ishikawa-jo castle in tango province.
then two years later in 1408,meichin's younger brother(or uncle)nagamasa ogasawara battled with the isshiki army in hazu district,mikawa province;on january 21,nagamasa died in battle along with his families and retainers.
mitsunori died on january 31,1409;he was given the hogo(posthumous buddhist name)of "jikoji dono".
meichin and his son who had been imprisoned were ordered to commit suicide by disembowelment in march,two months after mitsunori's death,and the ogasawara clan who had power as shugodai(deputy military governor)of isshiki clan fell about the same time with mitsunori's death.
