oe no asatsuna
oe no asatsuna(866-january 25,958)was kugyo(the top court official),a scholar,and a calligrapher who lived in the mid heian period.
his father was tango no kami(the governor of tango province)oe no gyokuen,and his grandfather was kebiishi no betto(superintendent of the imperial police)and sangi(royal advisor)oe no otondo.
asatsuna was called gokosoko for his grandfather who had been called kosoko.
he can compare with ono no tofu(or ono no michikaze)in the calligraphy skill.
he was appointed betto(superintendent)as a compiler of the shinkokushi(new national history).
record of office and rank
in 911,he became monjosho(student of literary studies in the imperial university).
on may 7,916,he became monjo tokugosho(distinguished scholars of letters)and appointed tanba no jo(secretary of tanba province).
on march 2,918,he was transferred to shinano gon no jo(provisional secretary of shinano province)from kyoto.
on february 5,923,he was transferred to gyobu shojo(junior secretary of the ministry of justice)in kyoto.
on march 13,924,he was transferred to minbu shojo(junior secretary of the ministry of popular affairs)in kyoto.
on march 2,925,he was transferred to minbu taijo(senior secretary of the ministry of popular affairs).
on january 7,928,he was conferred jugoinoge(junior fifth rank,lower grade).
on february 28,he was transferred to dainaiki(senior secretary of the ministry of central affairs)in kyoto.
on march 7,930,he served concurrently as mikawa no gon no suke(provisional vice governor of mikawa province).
on january 13,931,he served concurrently as minbu shoyu(junior assistant minister of popular affairs).
on november 19,933,he was transferred to sashoben(third-ranked officer of the left).
he retained his positions as minbu shoyu and mikawa no gon no suke.
on january 29,934,he was promoted to jugoinojo(junior fifth rank,upper grade).
he retained his positions as sashoben,minbu shoyu,and mikawa no gon no suke.
on february 2,935,he served concurrently as monjo hakase(professor of literature).
on june 18,936,he served concurrently as echizen no suke(assistant governor of echizen province).
he left mikawa no gon no suke.
on september 8,936,he served concurrently as iyo no suke(assistant governor of iyo province).
he left echizen no suke.
on february 13,938,he was promoted to shogoinoge(senior fifth rank,lower grade)and retained his positions as sashoben,minbu shoyu,monjo hakase,and iyo no suke.
on january 11,941,he was transferred to uchuben(middle controller of the right).
he retained his positions as minbu shoyu,monjo hakase,and iyo no suke.
on february in 941,he was promoted to jushiinoge(junior fourth rank,lower grade)and retained his positions as uchuben,minbu shoyu,monjo hakase,and iyo no suke.
on may 2,941,he served concurrently as minbu taifu(senior assistant minister of popular affairs).
he left uchuben and minbu shoyu.
on may 25,944,he was transferred to uchuben(middle controller of the right)in kyoto.
he retained his positions as minbu taifu,monjo hakase,and iyo no suke.
on november 26,945,he was transferred to sachuben(middle controller of the left)in kyoto.
he retained his positions as minbu taifu,monjo hakase,and iyo no suke.
on may 29,946,he was allowed to access the imperial court.
on december 20,946,he was promoted to jushiinojo(junior fourth rank,upper grade)and retained his positions as sachuben,minbu taifu,monjo hakase,and iyo no suke.
on march 1,949,he served concurrently as iyo no gon no kami(provisional governor of iyo province).
he left iyo no suke.
on march 15,951,he was transferred to sadaiben(major controller of the left).
on july 4,951,he served concurrently as kangeyu no kami(chief investigator of the records of outgoing officials).
on november 25,953,he was appointed to sangi,councilor.
on april 24,954,he served concurrently as bizen no kami(the governor of bizen province).
on november 9,955,he served concurrently as mino no gon no kami(provisional governor of mino province).
he left bizen no kami.
on february 26,956,he was promoted to shoshiinoge(senior fourth rank,lower grade)and retained his position as sangi.
on march 17,956,he served concurrently as sanuki gon no kami(provisional governor of sanuki province).
on january 25,958,he passed away.
died at the age of 92.
he was sangi,shoshiinoge,and sanuki gon no kami.
calligraphy work
kikashu(collection of the house of ki)
a transcription made in 919 of poetry of miscellany written by ki no haseo.
it is written in a free,light,lambent style,full of liveliness like ito naishinno ganmon(prayer of princess ito).
it is undoubtedly shinseki(original handwriting)because asatsuna's signature is found at the end of the book.
