atsushi uemura
atsushi uemura(april 12,1933-)is a japanese-style painter,and a member of the japan art academy.
his real name is written as淳in a chinese character.
he lives in nara city.
he was born in kyoto,as a son of shoko uemura.
he paints kacho-ga(painting of flowers and birds)as his father did.
his grandmother was shoen uemura,and the three generations of the uemura family have been members of the japan art academy.
he is the curator of the shohaku art museum which exhibits the works of shoen,shoko,and atsushi uemura.
brief personal history
he was born in kyoto.
he was accepted for the shinseisaku association exhibition for the first time.
he completed the non-degree course for graduates of kyoto city university of fine arts(present-day,kyoto city university of arts).
he received the sogakai award.
he became a member of sogakai.
he became a professor at kyoto city university of arts.
he received kyoto bunka koro sho(the award for cultural distinguished service by kyoto prefecture).
he became the curator of the shohaku art museum.
he received the award of the japan art academy.
he became the dean of the faculty of fine arts,kyoto city university of arts.
he became the vice-president of kyoto city university of arts(until 2004).
he became a member of the japan art academy.
he became the curator of kyoto city school history museum.
he received the all-japan academy award.
he became the head of sogakai.
works
"four seasons of birds,original lithograph works" the mainichi newspapers,1981
"uemura atsushi art collection book" kodansha,1983
"flowers and birds,anthology by shoko and atsushi uemura" dai nippon kaiga,1985
"uemura atsushi art collection book" kyuryudo graphics,1989
"new modern-day japanese-style painter sketch collection 3,uemura atsushi,conversation with birds" japan broadcast publishing,1992
"future of japanese-style paintings" bijutsu-nenkansha,1992(arusu series)
"uemura atsushi" geijutsushinbunsha,1993(art top series,collection of contemporary painters)
"uemura atsushi" nikkei,1993(nikkei pocket gallery)
"enchanted by birds-birds,me,and kacho-ga" chuo koron bijutsu shuppan,1997
