shigemasa ozawa
shigemasa ozawa(year of birth unknown-july 18,1205)was a busho(japanese military commander)who lived during the kamakura period.
he was a gokenin(direct vassal)of the kamakura bakufu(japanese feudal government headed by a shogun).
his family was part of the chichibu clan.
he was the lord of ozawa-jo castle.
his father,shigenari inage,was a senior vassal of the kamakura bakufu.
his mother was a daughter of tokimasa hojo,who is said to have been a younger sister of masako hojo.
he was commonly known as jiro or kotaro.
he was also known as kotaro ozawa.
it is said that he called himself kotaro ozawa after entering ozawa-jo castle.
(his father,shigenari inage is believed to have built ozawa-jo castle.)
(however,another theory suggests that shigemasa built the castle.)
he became the first archer along with his uncle,shigetomo hangaya at the first archery ceremony of the year hosted by the bakufu on february 23,1201.
shigetada hatakeyama,who was suspected of rebellion by yoshitoki hojo,died in the battle of futamatagawa on july 18,1205.
the following day,yoshimura miura deceived shigetomo hangaya,his eldest legitimate son shigeki chichibu and his second son hideshige chichibu to kill altogether at the entrance to kyojigayatsu.
later,shigemasa's father shigenari was killed by the okodo clan,while shigemasa ozawa was killed by the usami clan.
accompanied by her nursing father,nobushige ozawa,shigemasa ozawa's daughter,ayanokoji sanmi morosue sokujyo(literally, "daughter of ayanokoji sanmi morosue," two years old at the time)visited kamakura to see masako hojo on december 21,1205.
masako,who was moved to tears with the pitiful plight of the granddaughter of her younger sister,decided to adopt her.
it is said that masako gave the adopted granddaughter ozawa-kyo(around present yanokuchi,inagi city),which had been a property inheritance of shigenari inage.
there is a description related to their descendants in the "chishi hensyu torishirabebo" (local history of inage city)as follows:
yet the details in the remote past are uncertain,shigenari saburo inage governed the area during the kamakura period,which was later given to sakon no shogen(lieutenant the left division of inner palace guards)nobushige ozawa,and then saemon尉国高ozawa governed the area during the oei era.
