mirei shigemori
mirei shigemori(1896-1975)(his real name was kazuo shigemori)was ajapanese gardener during the showa period and a researcher into the history of japanese gardens.
biography and personal profile
he was born in yoshikawa,kayo-cho,jobo-gun,okayama prefecture(currently yoshikawa,kibi chuo-cho,kaga-gun).
the area with canyons resembled the world of chinese-style landscape calligraphy painting known as "gokei."
he learned japanese art in nippon art college and took ikebana(japanese art of flower arrangement)and sado(tea ceremony)lessons.
after he graduated from nippon art college,he went to study at the faculty of literature in toyo university.
he went to tokyo in 1917 to life as an artist,but became dismayed at seeing many talented artists from across japan.
when he moved to kyoto in 1929,he presented 'new ikebana declaration' with sofu teshigahara and advocated the revolution of ikebana to the world.
he later learned about japanese gardens on his own.
from 1936,he surveyed gardens all over japan,famous gardens of different periods in five hundred places around japan,researched on ancient gardens,and became a pioneer as a researcher on the history of japanese gardens.
he published twenty-six volumes of "nihon teienshi zukan" (illustrated guide to the history of japanese gardens)in 1939,and built the foundation of his research on the history of gardens,and completed the thirty-three volumes(two extra volumes)of "nihon teienshi taikei" (a historical overview of japanese gardens)along with his son,kanto shigemori in 1976,and made huge achievements as a researcher into the history of gardens.
in 1949,he became the leader for the research group for zenei ikebana(forefront ikebana), 'hakutosha,' and later published the 'ikebana geijutsu' (fine art of the art of ikebana),which was a zenei ikebana magazine.
the gardens mirei performedlandscape architecture on was the karesansui garden(dry landscape garden)with strong stone foundation and modern-style allotment of land by moss,and his representative works include the garden of the hojo(hall of an abbot)in tofuku-ji temple,the garden of komyo-in temple,the garden of zuiho-in temple within the grounds of daitoku-ji temple,and the garden of the matsuo-taisha shrine.
his representative works(those that could be visited)
the garden of the hojo in tofuku-ji temple built in 1939 in kyoto city.
hashintei(dry pond garden)of komyo-in temple built in 1939 in kyoto city.
the garden of the hachijin no niwa(garden of eight battle formations)of the kishiwada-jo castle created in 1953 in kishiwada city,osaka prefecture.
the garden of komyozen-ji temple created in 1957 in dazaifu city,fukuoka prefecture.
iraku park created in 1961 in hirakata city,osaka prefecture.
dokuza no niwa(garden of solitary meditation)of zuiho-in temple created in 1961 in kyoto city.
the garden of shido-ji temple created in 1962 in sanuki city,kagawa prefecture.
the kanuntei(kanun no niwa)(garden of appreciating clouds)created in 1963 in fukushima,kiso-machi,kiso-gun,nagano prefecture.
the garden of ryogin-an temple created in 1964 in kyoto city.
the garden of the kitano museum of art created in 1965 in nagano city,nagano prefecture.
suminoe no niwa(suminoe garden)of sumiyoshi-jinja shrine created in 1966 in sasayama city,hyogo prefecture.
tenraian tea garden created in 1969 in kibi chuo-cho,okayama prefecture.
the yurintei(yurin no niwa)(garden of yurin)created in 1969 and transferred to kibi chuo-cho,okayama prefecture in 2002.
the garden of kanyo-ji temple created between 1969 and 1973 in shunan city,yamaguchi prefecture.
1970 in kyoto city.
the shijin soo no niwa(garden of the proper arrangement of the four guardian gods)created in 1972 in tanba city,hyogo prefecture.
the shuseki tei(graceful stone garden)of hokoku-jinja shrine created in 1972 in osaka city,osaka prefecture.
the garden of fukuchi-in temple in 1973 in koya-cho(mt.koya),wakayama prefecture.
the garden of matsuo-taisha shrine created in 1975 in kyoto city.
his main written works(most are currently out of print)
"nihon teienshi zukan,complete twenty-six volumes" published in 1936 to 1939 by yukosha.
"niwa no bi" (the beauty of gardens)published in 1942 by daiichigeibunsha.
"karesansui" published in 1965 by kawachi shoten(publisher).
"niwa kokoro to katachi" (garden heart and shape)published in 1968 by shakai shinsosha(the mind of a society).
"nihon no meien" (famous gardens of japan)published in 1969 by seibundo shinkosha.
"jissokuzu nihon no meien" (the map of surveyed famous gardens of japan)published in 1971 by seibundo shinkosha.
"chashitsu chatei jiten" (dictionary of tea rooms and tea gardens)published in 1973 by seibundo shinkosha.
"nihon teienshi taikei complete thirty-five volumes" published between 1971 to 1976 by shakai shisosha.
"nihon no niwa(meien,sakutei,sozaihen)" (garden of japan(famous gardens,landscape architecture,and texture volume)published in 1975 by mainichi shinbunsha(the mainichi newspapers).
"the collection of works of mirei shigemori,the approach to gardens and gods" published in 1975 by seibundo shinkosha.
episode
the name, 'mirei' is what he named himself after deriving it from the french artist,jean-francois millet.
hakutosha gathered in the residence of shigemori once a month,and zenei ikebana artists from ken domon,houn ohara,and yukio nakagawa also participated in the event.
mirei had a large circle of friends that he established through his work with gardens,and made friends with isamu noguchi,the sculptor in the united states,who visited the residence of mirei shigemori several times.
