tsunetoyo hirohata
tsunetoyo hirohata(august 7,1779-october 11,1838)was a court noble during the late edo period.
he served two successive emperors,emperor kokaku(the 119th emperor)and emperor ninko(the 120th emperor).
the highest official rank he achieved was juichii(junior 1st rank)naidaijin(minister of the center).
his father was dainagon(chief councilor of state)sakihide hirohata.
his mother was the daughter of the lord of the yodo domain masanobu inaba.
minister of the right tsunehiro konoe was his foster-father.
his wife was sanetane imadegawa's adopted daughter(suketsune hino's daughter).
naidaijin(minister of the center)mototoyo hirohata was his son and sakone no gon no chujo(provisional middle captain of the left division of inner palace guards)sanetatsu sonoike's wife and monjo hakase(professor of literature)aritsune karahashi's wife were his daughters.
in 1790 he was conferred jugoinoge(junior 5th rank,lower grade).
since then,he achieved a considerably rapid promotion for being the head of the seiga family(one of the highest court noble families in japan at that time),holding the positions such as jiju(a chamberlain),sakone no gon no shosho(provisional minor captain of the left division of inner palace guards),ukone no gon no chujo(provisional middle captain of the right division of inner palace guards),and chugu gon no suke(provisional assistant master of the consort's household),and in 1795 he was ranked jusanmi(junior 3rd rank)and became one of kugyo(top court officials).
in 1811,he became chugu gon no daibu(provisional master of the consort's household)to emperor kokaku's chugu(the 2nd consort of the emperor)imperial princess yoshiko and in 1812,he served as toka no sechie geben(a kugyo who supervised many matters outside jomei gate at toka no sechie(imperial court ceremony))and became dainagon(a chief councilor of state).
in 1821 he served as naiben(a kugyo who supervised inside jomei gate)at toka no sechie(imperial court ceremonies,that took place on may 16).
in 1824 although he was appointed to naidaijin(minister of the center),he resigned.
in 1825 he was conferred juichii(junior 1st rank).
