tadasue tsutsumi
tadasue tsutsumi(year of birth unknown-july 27,1221)was gokenin(an immediate vassal of the shogunate in the kamakura and muromachi through edo periods)in the early kamakura period.
he was a son of koremune no hirokoto.
he held the post of wakasa shugoshiki(provincial constables of wakasa province).
it is said that he was from a family of the shimazu clan descended from the koremune clan,and was a younger(or elder)brother of tadahisa shimazu,who held the title of satsuma shugoshiki(provincial constables of satsuma province).
his wives included wakasani.
his children included tadakiyo wakasa.
he was also known as jiro,sahyoe no jo(third-ranked officer of sahyoe-fu,the left division of middle palace guards),and wakasa hyoe nyudo.
he called himself tadasue wakasa later.
he was an ancestor of the wakasa shimazu clan.
since he was appointed as jitoshiki(manager and lord of manor)for yasushi tsutsumi in onyu county,he first called himself tadasue tsutsumi.
on october 1,1196,minamoto no yoritomo gave tadasue 25 territories in onyu and mikata counties,which were confiscated from tokisada inaba,who was the most influential local official in wakasa province.
it is assumed that tadasue was appointed as wakasa shugoshiki on this occasion(according to "shugoshoku shidai" (the ritual protocol of provincial constable),and after that,he adopted the family name of "wakasa," the name of the province,as he became aware of his position as the center of wakasa province.
in 1199,his name was listed in a compact covenant under joint signatures to impeach kagetoki kajiwara(the kagetoki kajiwara incident).
in 1203,his right of an officer governing a shoen estate was confiscated because of being involved in the conspiracy of yoshikazu hiki.
in 1220,he returned to the post of wakasa shugoshiki.
in the following year,he supported the kamakura(minamoto)side in the jokyu war,but died on july 22 in the battle in yodo-gawa river due to a failure of crossing the river caused by the rapid stream.
after the war,his nephew tadatoki shimazu succeeded the post of wakasa shugoshiki.
his descendants called themselves the mikata clan as they were based on mikata county and became hikan(low-level bureaucrat)of the isshiki clan who held the post of wakasa shugo in the early muromachi period.
when the isshiki clan was removed from the post of wakasa shugo,the mikata clan followed the isshiki clan and transferred its base to minami-yamashiro and served the lord of castles.
descendants
"zeisho shidai" (the ritual protocol of the tax office)and "shugoshoku shidai" suggest evidence of the wakasa shimazu clan for four generations.
