minamoto no toshifusa
minamoto no toshifusa(1035-december 30,1121)was a kuge(japanese aristocratic class or noble man)in the late heian period.
his father was minamoto no morofusa and his mother was fujiwara no takako[sonshi],a daughter of fujiwara no michinaga.
his children were shokaku,ninkan(founder of shingon tachikawa school(esoteric buddhism)),minamoto no moroyori,minamoto no morotoki,minamoto no morotoshi,minamoto no masako and the wife of fujiwara no munetoshi.
he was also called horikawa no sadaijin.
in 1045 he was adopted by fujiwara no yorimichi,and went through genpuku(the coming-of-age ceremony for a boy in the old days).
he was served the emperors of five generations from emperor goreizei to emperor toba,and was finally promoted to juichii(junior first rank)sadaijin(minister of the left)in 1083 after serving as kebiishi no betto(superintendent of the imperial police),saemon no kami(captain of the left division of outer palace guards),sakone no daisho(major captain of the left division of inner palace guards),sangi(royal advisors),dainagon(chief councilor of state)and udaijin(minister of the right.)
he was very familiar with yosoku kojitsu(well-versed in usages or practices of the court or military households(practices))in the imperial court and brought about the best days for the murakami-genji(minamoto clan),but in 1113 ninkan who was serving as gojiso(budhist exorcists)for imperial prince sukehito of emperor gosanjo was believed to have been planning the assassination of emperor toba,and handed over the position of head for murakami-genji to his younger brother minamoto no akifusa.
minamoto no toshifusa first caused a disturbance by having an affair with imperial princess kenshi of emperor gosuzaku,who became an official wife for him,and running away with her without emperor gosuzaku's approval,that infuriated imperial prince takahito(later,emperor gosanjo),imperial princess kenshi's brother,who did not have a child with her.
in later years,he had many children with minamoto no sanemoto,minamoto no motohira,etc.and masako,one of his daughters married fujiwara no nagazane and gave birth to a daughter named fujiwara no tokushi[nariko].
toshifusa's diary was given the title 'suisaki,' and according to current research,the diary was written from 1062 to 1108.
he was also famous for his excellent calligraphy.
