fujiwara no mitate
fujiwara no mitate(year of birth unknown and died on july 16,764)was an aristocrat and a bureaucrat in the nara period.
he was from fujiwara hokke(the northern house of the fujiwara clan).
his original name was 'chihiro'.
he changed his name to 'mitate' just after the emperor junnin's enthronement.
as for the year of his birth, 'kugyobunin' (a document on which the names of court officials were recorded)suggested that 'he died at the age of 50'.
however,if counted backward based on this record,the year of his birth would be the same as one of his selder brothers,matate's.
therefore,a prevailing view is that the record related to the name 'mitate' might be wrong.
while his maternal half-elder brothers,fujiwara no nagate and matate were in confrontation with fujiwara no nakamaro,it was presumed that mitate was a close aide to nakamaro regarding his promotion and relationship with his relatives.
it is thought that he was in charge of military affairs by the fact he was the head of jutoei(division of inner palace guards).
however,his sudden premature death is considered to have indirectly caused nakamaro's defeat in the later occurred fujiwara no nakamaro's war.
brief biography
he was born as fujiwara no fusasaki's sixth son(around in 722?).
in may 748,he was promoted to the official rank of jugoinoge(junior fifth rank,lower grade)from shorokuinoge(senior sixth rank,lower grade).
(this is his first appearance in historical record.)
on august 23,749,he was promoted to the official rank of jugoinojo(junior fifth rank,upper grade).
in june,750,he was appointed to be mino no kuni no kami(the governor of mino province).
mino was a very important province,because it had fuwa-no-seki checking station.
on june 15,757,he rose to the official rank of shogoinoge(senior fifth rank,lower grade).
in august of the same year,he was promoted to shogoinojo(senior fifth rank,upper grade).
in september 758,he rose to the official rank of jushiinoge(junior fourth rank,lower grade)(at this time,his name, 'mitate' was recorded).
in july 759,he was promoted to jushiinojo(senior fourth rank,upper grade).
on february,761,he was appointed to be azechi(local inspector)of iga province,omi province and wakasa province as well as his existing role of sangi(councilor)jutotoku(the head of jutoei whose duty was to support goefu,the official agency of security guards).
in september 761,he was promoted to the official rank of shoshiinojo(senior fourth rank,upper grade).
in november during the same year,he was promotoed to jusanmi(junior third rank).
on july 16,764,he died.
