ietsugu oinomikado
ietsugu oinomikado(大炊御門家嗣,1197-august 21,1271)was a kugyo(high court noble)in the middle of kamakura period.
he worked for the seven imperial courts from emperor tsuchimikado(the eighty-third)to emperor gofukakusa(the eighty-ninth),and rose up to shonii naidaijin(senior second rank,minister of the interior)in official court ranks.
his father was udaijin(minister of the right)morotsune oinomikado.
his mother was the daughter of gon chunagon(provisional vice-councilor of state)fujiwara no mitsumasa.
his wife was the daughter of fujiwara no motomune.
he had the son named fuyutada oinomikado who was appointed as naidaijin(minister of the interior).
in 1205,he was raised to the peerage for the first time,and from then,he was promoted successively to ukone no shosho(minor captain of the right division of inner palace guards),totomi no gon no suke(provisional assistant governor of totomi province),and iyo no gon no suke(provisional assistant governor of iyo province),and in 1214,he was promoted to jusanmi(junior third rank)to be a kugyo.
after that,he also held successively the positions of ukone no chujo(middle captain of the right division of inner palace guards),echizen no gon no suke(provisional assistant governor of echizen province),gon chunagon,chunagon(vice-councilor of state),and gon dainagon(provisional chief councilor of state),and in 1231,he was appointed as togu no daibu(master of the crown prince's quarters)of imperial prince mitsuhito(later emperor shijo)who was then the crown prince of emperor gohorikawa.
in 1232,he resigned his position on seeing the enthronement of imperial prince.
in the same year,he was appointed as ukone no daisho(major captain of the right division of inner palace guards).
in 1233,he was appointed as kogogu-daibu(master of the empress's household)for yushi sanjo,the wife of emperor gohorikawa,and in 1239,he was appointed as naidaijin(minister of the interior)and in 1240 he resigned his position.
in 1249,he entered into priesthood,and after that,he was called saga nyudo(monk).
in 1271,he passed away.
he was 75 years old when he died.
