fujiwara no morotada
fujiwara no morotada(july 24,920-december 1,969)was a court noble in the middle of heian period.
he originated from the koichijo line of the northern house of the fujiwara clan;his descendants were the koichijo family and the anegakoji family of hida province kokushi(provincial governor)as a branch family of the koichijo family.
shonii(senior second rank),sadaijin(minister of the left).
career
he was the fifth son of fujiwara no tadahira.
he became sangi(councilor)in 946.
he became gon chunagon(provisional middle counselor)in 948.
he became chunagon(middle counselor)in 951.
after he had his daughter,fujiwara no hoshi enter into the court of emperor murakami,his daughter was appointed as nyogo(a high-ranking lady in the court;a consort of an emperor)in 958.
hoshi had fine features,and she was deeply in favor with the emperor and had two children;imperial prince masahira,imperial prince nagahira,with him,however,their poor health precluded them from becoming crown princes.
he became gon dainagon(provisional major counselor)in 960.
he became dainagon(chief councilor of state)in 966.
when emperor murakami passed away,and emperor reizei ascended the throne in 967,fujiwara no saneyori assumed the post of kanpaku dajodaijin(imperial regent and grand minister);minamoto no takaakira assumed the post of sadaijin(minister of the left);and morotada assumed the post of udaijin(minister of right).
morotada plotted with saneyori,and enthroned emperor enyu instead of imperial prince tamehira who was older than emperor enyu and whose wife was the daughter of takaakira.
in march in 969,minamoto no takaakira,sadaijin lost his position after a plot to raise a war in an attempt to enthrone imperial prince tamehira was informed(anna incident).
morotada took the post of sadaijin instead of takaakira,but morotada passed away in october of the same year six months after he became sadaijin.
it was believed that anna incident was morotada's plot to deprive takaakira of his position,and people tend to say that morotada's death only six months after his accession was due to minamoto no takaakira's resentment.
thereafter,he was referred to as 'black-hearted.'
