takatomo kyogoku
takatomo kyogoku(1572-september 17,1622)was a daimyo(japanese territorial lord)in the sengoku period from the sengoku period active from the azuchi-momoyama period to the edo period.
founder of the miyazu domain.
achieving fame at sekigahara,he was conferred the title of director of the provincial governors of tango province and became kunimochi daimyo(a daimyo having domain of one province or more).
he was the son of takayoshi kyogoku.
his mother was the wife of hisamasa azai(also known as maria kyogoku).
among his brothers was takatsugu kyogoku.
his legal wife was the daughter of nobuzumi oda,his second wife the daughter of hideyori mori(the governor of owari province for the shiba clan).
his legitimate son was takahiro kyogoku;his third son takamitsu kyogoku,head of tanabe domain;his adopted son takamichi kyogoku,head of the mineyama domain(in tango province);and his adopted sons-in-law were the imperial prince hachijonomiya toshihito,takamichi kyogoku,and masakatsu rokugo.
first serving under hideyoshi toyotomi,after long years of meritorious service he was allowed to take the family name hashiba and was known as ina hashiba(羽柴伊奈)jiju(chamberlain).
in 1593,he the inherited territorial lands totalizing 60,000 goku in ina country,shinano province,and iida-jo castle from his father-in-law hideyori mori,and was appointed to the position of juji of jushiinoge(junior fourth rank,lower grade).
in 1594,his governing territory was increased to 100,000 goku.
after the death of hideyoshi,he became close to ieyasu tokugawa,and in 1600 proved his fierce mettle on the front lines of battle by fighting against hidenobu oda's defense of gifu-jo castle,and taking part in yoshitsugu otani's fight to the death in the battle of sekigahara,finally receiving,after the battle,123,000 goku in miyazu domain,tango province as a daimyo and taking the name kyogoku tango no kami(the governor of tango province).
after entering tanabe-jo castle(in tango province),he moved his base to miyazu-jo castle.
as a result of his giving away a part of the fief of miyazu domain to members of his family,his legitimate son's family became the local territorial rulers.
however,the family was removed from the fief of miyazu domain after three generations.
later descendants were appointed koke(privileged family under tokugawa shogunate)and continued in this capacity until the last days of the tokugawa shogunate.
miyazu domain was divided up into the domains of miyazu,maizuru,and mineyama.
the kyogoku family of the maizuru domain relocated their territorial area to tajima,although the kyogoku family of the mineyama domain never left their domain and continued to defend the area of tango until the end of the tokugawa shogunate.
a number of members of the kyogoku family of the mineyama domain were active in the center of edo bakufu(japanese feudal government headed by a shogun)politics.
