taira no chikazane
taira no chikazane or imibe no chikazane(year of birth and death unknown)was a person who lived from the end of the heian period to the beginning of the kamakura period.
his official court rank was gon no daibu(provisional master).
he was commonly called saburo,but also called 'imibe no chikazane.'
his imina(personal name)was also written as chikamasa(親眞or親実).
according to "hankanpu" (genealogy of the protectors of the shogunate),he was a shinto priest of oda-jinja shrine and regarded as the founder of the oda clan and tsuda clan,so that he was also called chikamasa oda.
his father was regarded as taira no sukemori,who was a descendant of taira no korehira,kanmu heishi(taira clan),and his mother was a concubine of sukemori(not to be confused with kenreimonin ukyo no daibu,a female waka poet)who was a niece of shinkai,ajari(a master in esoteric buddhism;a high priest)in ichijobo of onjo-ji temple.
after the ruin of the taira clan in 1185,he and his mother escaped to thuda sho,gamo gun(gamo district),omi province,and his mother became the wife of a local clan member in tsuda.and at this time he also began to use the surname of tsuda.
it is said that later he was adopted as a son of chikasumi inbe(忌部親澄),a shinto priest of oda-jinja shrine(the tsurugi shrine)in oda sho,nyu gun,echizen province,changed his surname to inbe and became a shinto priest.
after that,he took the tonsure and was given the name of kakujo as his go(byname),as follows.
in addition,it is said that his descendant,tsunemasa oda,changed his surname to oda and became a vassal of the shiba clan,according to the "shokuho koboshi" (history of the rise and fall of the oda and toyotomi clans).
however,this is an altered view of the genealogy of the fujiwara clan to the one of kanmu heishi when nobunaga oda achieved the unification of the whole country,so that it is considered unreliable.
there is a doubt that chikazane was really sukemori's son and he is regarded as a son between chikasumi and a daughter of taira no motonori(or chikanaga inbe).
kakujo,who was a priest and a son of sukemori,is regarded as a different person from chikazane and regarded as sukemori's only son.
