minamoto no yorihira
minamoto no yorihira(years of birth and death not known)was a military commander and official who lived in the middle heian period.
he was the fourth son of minamoto no mitsunaka.
his mother was a daughter of minamoto no suguru who was from the saga-genji(minamoto clan from saga).
minamoto no yorimitsu and genken were his brothers from the same mother and minamoto no yorichika and minamoto no yorinobu were his brothers from different mothers.
according to some,it is said that he became an adopted son of his elder brother,yorimitsu.
he was ranked jugoinojo(junior fifth rank,upper grade)and appointed to musashi no kuni no kami(the governor of musashi province)
similar to yorimitsu,he acted mainly as a middle-class official in kyoto.
there is a record that,in 1031,he became a candidate for the betto(chief)of the shoso-ritsubunsho storage but he refused it("shoyuki" (the diary of fujiwara no sanesuke)).
it is said that he became a priest and fumyo-ji temple in takarazuka city,hyogo prefecture was established by yorihira.
he had children including yorimori kashiwabara,who was jugoinoge(junior fifth rank,lower grade)and izu no kuni no kami(the governor of izu province),minamoto no tadasue who was jugoinojo(junior fifth rank,upper grade)and tosa no kuni no kami(the governor of tosa province),minamoto no yorikaze,ajari(high-ranked priest)eiju who was the gion betto(a religious administrator in charge of priests of gion shrine),yorimasu who was onjo-ji temple hakase and yoriaki who was the betto of shitenno-ji temple.
as for his daughters,three have been identified and they married minamoto no sukemichi,minamoto no suenaka and miinamoto no kiyohara,respectively.
his descendants called themselves kashiwabara,hinokizaka,koto and so on,no record of significant activity is seen that compares to the line of his three elder brothers.
tadasue's son,chujin became the tendai-zasu(the head of tendai sect.)and daisojo(the chief priest),and contributed to development of the tendai sect.
