kichiroku nakamura
kichiroku nakamura(november 21,1973-)is a tachiyaku(alternatively,tateyaku,which is a term used in the japanese theatrical form kabuki to refer to a young adult male role,and to an actor who plays this role).
kichiroku studies under kichiemon nakamura(the 2nd).
kichiroku is a kabuki actor and is from asa-minami ward,hiroshima city.
kichiroku graduated from hiroshima municipal numata high school.
kichiroku's real name is tadashi matsusaka.
kichiroku has type a blood(of abo blood group).
kichiroku's hobbies are blood donation,outdoor activities and camping.
personal profile and entertainment career
in 1994,kichiroku finished the twelfth-term kabuki actor training program of the national theatre of japan.
kichiroku first appeared on stage in april,1994,when he played the role of a spectator in the sumo-ba(sumo wrestling scene)and the others of "futatsu chocho kuruwa no nikki" (literally,a diary of two butterflies in the pleasure quarters).
chronological list of the main events
awards:
in october,1995,kichiroku won a special award of the national theatre of japan for his tachimawari(stylized fight scene)performance in the scene of the sea(kikai ga shima island)in the play "heike nyogo ga shima" (literally,the taira clan[and]the legendary island of women).
personage with the identical name:
a member of the shinsengumi(literally,the newly selected corps,referring to a special police force for the tokugawa regime).
the position in the shinsengumi:kyokucho-zuki(literally,an attendant on commander,referring to a probationary member)
years of birth and death unknown.
kichiroku joined the shinsengumi in about october or november,1867.
jingoro yokokura's name list which was created on the eve of the battle of toba-fushimi included kichiroku's name as a kyokucho-zuki(probationary member).
according to yokokura,kichiroku escaped from the shinsengumi at fushimi during the battle of toba-fushimi.
kai shimada also wrote that kichiroku had escaped.
kichiroku had never been heard of since then.
