fujiwara no mitsuyori
fujiwara no mitsuyori(1124-february 25,1173)was a kugyo(top court official)who lived during the latter part of the heian period.
he was from the kajuji line of the fujiwara north household and the first son of chunagon(vice-councilor of state)fujiwara no akiyori.
his official court rank was shonii dainagon(senior second rank,chief councilor of state).
he identified himself as hamuro dainagon nyudo and katsura dainagon.
he was also called mitsuyori hamuro.
he was born as the legitimate son of the hamuro family which began from fujiwara no akitaka,in no kinshin(the retired emperor's courtier)of the emperor shirakawa.
he was assigned to sangi(councilor)in 1156,gon chunagon(a provisional vice-councilor of state)in 1158 and gon dainagon(a provisional chief councilor of state).
he received high reputation as nori(capable officials)and dealt with everything fairly,so that he was respected by official and unofficial people.
in "gukansho" (jottings of a fool),he was highly valued as a person 'who stood out and was respected for generations.'
according to "heiji monogatari" (the tale of heiji),at the time of the heiji war which happened in 1159,he scolded his brother korekata who joined the war following his nephew fujiwara no nobuyori,which led to the remote cause of his disaffection.
in the section of 'sandai(a visit to the imperial palace)of councilor mitsuyori,' there is a description where mitsuyori rightly made a commanding speech and nobuyori,who showed a proud look,lost face to the contrary.
in his later years he became a priest and retired at katsura no sato(katsura village).
he was also good at waka(a traditional japanese poem of thirty-one syllables)and left a personal collection of poetry "katsura dainagonshu."
in addition,eight waka were selected for chokusen wakashu(anthology of japanese poetry compiled by imperial command)such as "shin chokusen wakashu(new imperial anthology of japanese poetry)."
the hamuro family split into the two lines of mitsumasa and muneyori who were sons of mitsuyori,but only the line of muneyori kept family name down through the ages.
