fujiwara no yoritsugu
fujiwara no yoritsugu(december 17,1239-october 14,1256)was the fifth seii taishogun(literally, "great general who subdues the barbarians")of the kamakura shogunate.
he was a shogun from the kujo family,one of the five regent families of the fujiwara clan,and is also called yoritsugu kujo.
his official court rank was jusanmi konoefu(junior third rank,division of inner palace guards).
career
he was born as the son of fujiwara no yoritsune and omiya-dono,daughter of fujiwara no chikayoshi(gon chunagon[provisional vice-councilor of state]).
in 1244,he attended the coming of age ceremony with the regent at the time tsunetoki hojo performing the role of putting eboshi(formal headwear)on his head.
thus,he became a shogun at the young age of 6 following the retirement of his father,fujiwara no yoritsune(yoritsune kujo).
in the following year,1245,he married hiwada-hime,daughter of tsunetoki hojo(hiwada-hime died in 1247).
in 1246,yoritsune was exiled to kyoto as a result of the miya sodo(palace disturbance),but yoritsugu stayed as shogun in kamakura.
however,in 1251,the shogunate accused yoritsugu of involvement in the rebellion of the buddhist monk ryogyo and others,and invited the imperial prince munetaka,son of the retired emperor gosaga,as the new shogun.
in the following year,yoritsugu was removed from the position of shogun and exiled to kyoto with his mother omiya-dono.
in 1256,he died from measles.
record of offices and ranks held
date according to old lunar calendar
april 21,1244:he attended the coming of age ceremony.
april 28:he was awarded the rank of jugoi ukone no shosho(junior fifth rank,minor captain of the right division of inner palace guards)and appointed as seii taishogun(great general).
august 25:he was promoted to the rank of shogoi(senior fifth rank).
january 13,1245:he was concurrently appointed as a officer of mino provincial government.
november 23,1246:he was promoted to the rank of jushii(junior fourth rank).
he remained in the position of ukone no shosho(minor captain of the right division of inner palace guards)and mino no gon no suke(vice governor of mino province).
august 25,1248:he was promoted to the rank of jushiinojo(junior fourth rank,upper grade).
he remained in the position of ukone no shosho and mino no gon no suke(vice governor of mino province).
january 23,1249:he was promoted to the rank of shoshii(senior fourth rank).
he remained in the position of ukone no shosho and mino no gon no suke(vice governor of mino province).
june 14:he was reassigned as sakone no chujo(middle captain of the left division of inner palace guards).
january 13,1250:he was concurrently appointed as mino no gon no kami(governor of mino province).
june 13,1251:he was promoted to the rank of jusanmi(junior third rank).
he remained in the position of sakone no chujo.
february 20,1252:he resigned the position of seii taishogun.
march:he went to kyoto.
