matsunosuke onoe
matsunosuke onoe(september 12,1875-september 11,1926)was a japanese film actor,japan's first movie star and film director from the meiji to the taisho period.
his real name was kakuzo nakamura.
biography and personal profile
on september 12(or september 11)1875 matsunosuke onoe was born as a son of a samurai family in okayama prefecture in nakashimada,kita ward,okayama city,okayama prefecture.
as a child he loved the theatre.
he made his first stage debut at the asahiza theatre near his house,supported by tamizo onoe(ii),a prominent actor in kansai kabuki when he was six years old.
(his then stage name was tajaku or tamijaku onoe).
by the name of kakusaburo onoe or gengoro mimasu,he toured around chugoku and shikoku region as leader of the troupe when he was 18 years old.
he assumed the stage name of matsunosuke onoe ii while he was touring in kyushu in 1902.
in 1904 he met shozo makino,manager of senbonza theater located in kamigyo ward,kyoto city during his tour in kasaoka city,okayama prefecture.
he was encouraged to become a film actor.
taking note of his crisp performance and skilful 'keren' (playing to the gallery),makino offered him a part in a movie.
in 1909 matsunosuke made his film debut,starring in "tadanobu goban" produced by yokota shokai and directed by makino.
opening his eyes as wide as possible and taking a 'mie' pose,he was fondly called 'medama no matchan' (matsu with popping eyes).
he appeared in over 1,000 period movies produced by yokota shokai(later consolidated into nikkatsu)in his lifetime.
he was the first great movie star in japanese cinema at its inception.
while continuing with his acting,he also produced and directed films.
he was also a philanthropist,constructing a nagaya(long)house for the poor in kyoto city with his own money.
later in his life he became an executive of nikkatsu.
he produced the old-fashioned movies that faithfully reflected the kabuki stage with heroic figures.
yet his works were beginning to be eclipsed by real american action movies and tsumasaburo bando's cinema influenced by the latter.
in such a situation he produced "mataemon araki," a big movie celebrating his 1,000th lead role in 1925.
the movie was a great hit and made a good showing,introducing realistic rather than traditional kabuki-like sword-fighting scenes.
in 1926 he collapsed while filming "kyokotsu mikazuki."
on september 11 he died of heart failure.
he was 52 years old.
it has been chronicled that 50,000 people including the governor of kyoto prefecture attended his funeral held in kyoto city and over 200,000 citizens crowded the roadsides to watch the funeral procession.
his achievements in establishing cinema as popular entertainment are all too great.
