fujiwara no teishi
fujiwara no teishi(shimeko)(1131 october 23,1176)was an empress and nyoin(a close female relative of the emperor or a woman of comparable standing)of the end of heian period.
she was a chugu(the second consort of an emperor)of the seventy-sixth emperor konoe.
her father was fujiwara no koremichi and mother was risshi,a daughter of fujiwara no akitaka.
she was an adopted daughter of bifukumonin fujiwara no nariko and fujiwara no tadamichi.
her ingo(a title of respect given to close female relatives of the emperor or a woman of comparable standing)was kujoin.
her homyo(a name given to a person who enters the buddhist priesthood)was seijokan.
in 1148,she became an adopted daughter of bifukumonin and in 1150,became an adopted daughter of kanpaku(chief adviser to the emperor),fujiwara no tadamichi.
in february of the same year,she was ranked to jusanmi(junior third rank,)in april,she received an imperial letter to do judai(an imperial consort's bridal entry into court)and become a nyogo(a consort of an emperor),and in june,she was formally became a chugu with an imperial order.
in 1155,her husband,emperor konoe demised and she entered into priesthood.
in 1156,she was entitled as an empress and in 1158,she became an empress dowager.
in 1168,she received an imperial letter that permit her to use the title "in."
in 1176,she demised at the age of 46.
as her real father koremichi was a cousin of bifukumonin,she became an adopted daughter of bifukumonin.
further,as her aunt(younger sister of koremichi)was a legal wife of kanpaku tadamichi,she did judai to emperor konoe as an adopted daughter of tadamichi,and she became a chugu with fujiwara no masaruko who earlier became an empress as an adopted daughter of the minister of left,fujiwara no yorinaga.
due to her judai,the relationship between tadamichi and yorinaga brothers became worsened and tadamichi was renounced by his father,fujiwara no tadazane.
however,tadamichi set his private residence,konoe-dono house as the imperial palace and kept off the empress masaruko from the emperor and resisted yorinaga.
however,emperor konoe passed away in july 1155 without leaving any heirs,and teishi entered into priesthood.
in the next year after the hogen war,she was promoted to empress and 2 years later,she became an empress dowager,and in 1168,she received an imperial letter which permit her to use the title "in" and was named kujoin.
