kagemichi aoyama
kagemichi aoyama(1819-december 11,1891)was a japanese fukko-shintoka(reactionary shintoist),who lived during the end of the edo period to the meiji period.
he was a lower-ranked feudal retainer of the naeki clan.
naomichi aoyama was his first son,and tanemichi aoyama was his third son.
he became a disciple of atsutane hirata in edo(present tokyo).
he supported the study of japanese classical literature of hirata-ha school,and as well as other members of the aoyama family,he actively advocated the denial of the confucian education,elimination of the buddhist temples in the domain(including the family temple of the domain lord),and abandonment of the buddhist mortuary tablet.
therefore,his approach provoked a strong backlash,and finally the former hitto karo(the head of chief retainers)gonemon chiba and other retainers such as yunoshin higashi(東侑之進),takeo chiba,ryogoro chiba,kennoshin kamiyama,naka nakahara,and iori yao came to plot an uprising against him.
however,kagemichi aoyama detected their attempt and on february 12,1870,he arrested all co-conspirators and exiled or imprisoned them.
he undertook the tama-matsuri(spirit festival)for kokugaku no shitaijin(four giants[azumamaro kada,mabuchi kamo,norinaga motoori,and atsutane hirata]of the study of japanese classical literature)held on june 4,1870,with izuo ogiwara,mototsuna miwada and others.
he played an important role together with his son naomichi,in the reform during the restoration process of the imperial rule.
he also transcribed "keizaisoron" (general theory of economics)by hand.
biography
in 1819,he was born.
in 1852,he became a disciple of kanetane hirata.
on june 15,1859,tanemichi was born in azabu,edo(present tokyo).
in june 1868,he was recruited by the restoration government,and appointed to choshi(selected capable official in charge of deliberative proceedings)and jingikan(officer of the institution for dedicating to religious ceremony)gonhanji(assistant judicial officer).
in 1876,the aoyama's residence was set on fire by the people who felt frustrated by haibutsu-kishaku(the anti-buddhist movement at the beginning of the meiji era).
in 1891,he died.
