fujiwara no kanshi
fujiwara no kanshi(hiroko)
the princess of imperial prince shigeakira was the second daughter of fujiwara no tadahira.
the princess to imperial prince atsuakira was the third daughter of fujiwara no michinaga.
the empress to emperor goreizei was the eldest daughter of fujiwara no yorimichi.
fujiwara no kanshi(the second daughter of fujiwara no tadahira)
fujiwara no kanshi(hiroko)(906-march 9,945)was the second daughter of fujiwara no tadahira,who held the title of dajodaijin(grand minister of state).
she was the princess of imperial prince shigeakira.
she gave birth to queen kishi in 929 and queen yoshiko in 942.
she passed away before her husband when she was forty years old in 945,and her daughter,queen kishi,who had the post in saigu(a place for unmarried princess in ise jingu shrine)left the position.
fujiwara no kanshi(the third daughter of fujiwara no michinaga)
fujiwara no kanshi(hiroko)(999-august 11,1025)was the third daughter of fujiwara no michinaga.
her mother was minamoto no akiko.
she was imperial princess atsuakira(ko ichijo in).
her other name was takamatsu den nyogo(court lady of takamatsu den).
in addition,she appeared in an entry on october 29,1013 in "mido kanpaku-ki" (the record of fujiwara no michinaga)recorded about the event where daughters of michinaga were given the jo ranks(official court ranks)as teishi(提子)and teishi(媞子)(she was given the jo rank of jusanmi(junior third rank))in "shoyuki"that kanshi(寛子)is believed to be what she named herself afterwards.
she performed the mogi ceremony(a girls ceremony to put on 'mo' (a skirt-like costume)for the first time)in 1009 and received the jo rank of jushii(junior fourth rank).
she was promoted to the jusanmi rank in 1013.
she married the imperial prince atsuakira on december 18,1017 and made takamatsu den as her new residence.
she gave birth to imperial princess kanshi in 1018 and imperial prince atsumoto in 1023.
she passed away at the age of twenty seven in 1025.
after the death of emperor sanjo,michinaga invited imperial prince atsuakira as the husband to his daughter,kanshi,also in appreciation for removing himself from the position of crown prince.
however,the princess fujiwara no enshi of imperial prince atsuakira,who already gave birth to the prince and her father,fujiwara no akimitsu grieved to death in succession as the wraiths of these two people appeared beside the death bed of kanshi who fell ill.
("eiga monogatari" (a tale of flowering fortunes)
fujiwara no kanshi(the eldest daughter of fujiwara no yorimichi)
fujiwara no kanshi(hiroko)(1036-september 28,1127)was the eldest daughter of fujiwara no yorimichi.
her mother was fujiwara no gishi.
she was the empress to emperor goreizei.
her other name was shijo no miya.
her maternal younger brother was fujiwara no morosane.
the origin of the mother of kanshi was uncertain,and it was to her disadvantage in the aristocratic society that she was born from a lady of low birth when the social standing of a mother was greatly stressed at that time,but she was a daughter whom yorimichi had longed for for a long time.
when his adopted daughter,fujiwara no genshi(chugu(empress)of emperor gosuzaku)passed away early,yorimichi tried his luck on his only daughter and made her go under judai(marry into the imperial court)to emperor goreizei on february 11,1051 and promoted her to kisai no miya(empress)on april 2 of the same year.
she had the strong support of her father,who was kanpaku(chief advisor to the emperor)and the palace of empress kanshi,who liked elegant activities such as poetry contests,and was filled with great splendor(it was described in the "shijonomiya no shimotsukeshu," the family collection of the female servant who served under kanshi).
however,despite the fact that her father yorimichi held great expectations for her,and the emperor goreizei held her dearly due to her honest and bright personality,empress kanshi did not give birth to a child.
kanshi,whose emperor goreizei passed away before her in 1068,underwent shukke(enter the priesthood)in the same year.
she became the empress dowager in the following year,and grand empress dowager in 1074,and passed away at the great age of ninety-two at the second residence in uji in 1127.
