miyazu-hime
miyazu-hime(princess miyazu)was a japanese mythology figure who was a daughter of otoyo no mikoto of owari no kuni no miyakko(governor of owari province before the ritsuryo system[a system of centralized government based on the ritsuryo code]).
her name is written as宮簀媛in "nihonshoki" (chronicles of japan),and美夜受比売in "kojiki" (the records of ancient matters).
otoyo no mikoto,who was her father,was a descendant of ame no hoakari(one of the gods in japanese mythology).
on his way home from his expedition to the east,yamato takeru no mikoto married miyazu-hime during his stay in owari.
after yamato takeru no mikoto died in nobono,miyazu-hime built atsuta-jingu shrine to enshrine ame no murakumo no tsurugi(also known as kusanagi no tsurugi,the sword of the imperial regalia and one of the three sacred treasures of the imperial family),which was left by yamato takeru no mikoto.
according to "nihonshoki," yamato takeru no mikoto married miyazu-hime,who was a daughter of the owari clan,in owari on his way home from his expedition to the east.
later,he heard about the violent god in mt.ibuki in omi province,and went off to exterminate the god unarmed,leaving behind the ame no murakumo no tsurugi.
when he ignored a giant snake he encountered on the mountain road,which was in fact the god in disguise,the god sent hailstones to annoy mikoto.
it made mikoto faint,and when he finally came to at yamashita no izumi(spring in yamashita),he found himself ill.
mikoto returned to owari,but headed to ise without visiting the house of miyazu-hime.
although "kojiki" describes a similar story,it states that miyazu-hime was the ancestor of owari no kuni no miyakko,and that yamato takeru no mikoto made love to miyazu-hime during her menstruation.
it also states that they were engaged on mikoto's way to togoku(the eastern part of japan,particularly kanto region),when he visited owari.
according to the origin of atsuta-yashiro shrine,which is an itsubun(unknown or lost writings)in "owari no kuni fudoki" (records of the culture and geography of the owari province),and "atsuta daijingu engi" (history of atsuta-daijingu shrine),when yamato takeru no mikoto married miyazu-hime no mikoto,who was a primitive ancestor of the owari muraji group,and stayed with her,the sword produced a divine light.
consequently,yamato takeru no mikoto ordered miyazu-hime no mikoto to enshrine the sword,on which occasion atsuta-jingu shrine was built.
