kintsugu tokudaiji
kintsugu tokudaiji(1175-february 24,1227)was kugyo(court noble)who lived from the end of heian period to the early kamakura period.
he served the imperial court during five generations of emperor gotoba(the 82nd),emperor tsuchimikado(the 83rd),emperor juntoku(the 84th),emperor chukyo(the 85th)and emperor gohorikawa(the 86th),and was promoted to juichii(junior first rank)sadaijin(minister of the left).
his original name was公嗣.
his father was sadaijin sanesada tokudaiji.
his mother was nyobo(court lady)of josaimonin.
his children were dajo-daijin(grand minister of state)sanemoto tokudaiji and sanetsugu tokudaiji.
he had been promoted successively since conferring a peerage in 1183,and became sangi(a councilor)and was raised to kugyo in 1190 after experience as jiju(chamberlain),bizen no suke(assistant governor of bizen province),ukone no shosho(minor captain of the right division of inner palace guards),ukone no chujo(middle captain of the right division of inner palace guards)and other positions.
he became chugushiki(office of the consort's household)of ninshi kujo who was chugu(the second consort of an emperor)of the emperor gotoba during 1195.
after experience as iyo no gon no kami(provincial governor of iyo province),gon chunagon(provisional vice-councilor of state),saemon no kami captain of the left division of outer palace guards),kebiishi no betto(superintendent of the imperial police)and other positions,he became togubo(crown prince's quarters)of imperial prince morinari(later,emperor juntoku)in 1202.
that year,he officially became chunagon(vice-councilor of state).
he became gon dainagon(provisional chief councilor of state)in 1204 and dainagon(a chief councilor of state)in 1206.
in addition,he officially became togu no daibu(master of the crown prince's quarters).
he was appointed to ukone no daisho(major captain of the right division of inner palace guards)in 1207.
he became shonii(senior second rank)naidaijin(a minister)in 1209.
he resigned ukone no daisho in 1210,became udaijin(minister of the right)in 1211 and resigned in 1215.
he served as toka no sechie naiben(kugyo who supervised inside the jomei gate at toka no sechie(imperial court ceremonies)in 1222 and became sadaijin in 1221.
he was conferred juichii in 1225.
