fujiwara no kaedemaro
fujiwara no kaedemaro(723-july 7,776)was a bureaucracy in the nara period.
his name kaedemaro楓麻呂was also written as楓麿or楓万呂(the pronunciations are same).
he was the seventh son of sangi(councilor)fujiwara no fusasaki.
ranked jusanmi sangi(councilor at junior third rank).
in 758,he was appointed to saikaido monminkushi(investigator for the common people of saikai-do road);he reported about the disease spread in the region to daijokan(grand council of state)and dazai-fu(local government office in kyushu region)dealt with that.
in august of the same year,he was raised to jugoinoge(junior fifth rank,lower grade),and in september he again reported twenty-nine issues of disease spread among common people.
in january,760,he was appointed to tokaido junsatsushi(circuit inspector of tokai-do road)and belonged to shikibu-sho(the ministry of personnel).
he huntd down and subdued fujiwara no nakamaro's war which launched in october,764,and after the war,in november of the same year,he was appointed to mino-no-kuni no kami(governor of mino province).
in february,765,he was given a medal for his merit.
after he was appointed to hyoe-fu(headquarters of the middle palace guards)in july of the same year,he held important posts,such as dazai no daini(senior assistant governor general of dazai-fu),benkan(otomoi no tsukasa or the controller of the oversight department),and shinano-no-kuni no kami(governor of shinano province).
while managing taimo no rei(the rites of the imperial funeral)for emperor shotoku as goshozoku-shi(goshozoku no tsukasa or an official in charge of important rituals)ranked jushiinoge(junior fourth rank,lower grade)in august,770,he acted his part as danjo(inspector)of danjodai(board of censors)to urge dokyo to leave the capital to shimotsuke province.
in august,770,he was appointed to ise-no-kuni no kami(governor of ise province)and raised to jushiinojo(junior fourth rank,upper grade)in october.
in june,771,he served at emonfu(headquarters of the outer palace guards)and also appointed to sanuki-no-kuni no kami(governor of sanuki province),in december of the same year,he was raised to shoshiinoge(senior fourth rank,lower grade),in 772 he was appointed to sangi(councilor),and at last he raised to jusanmi in 774.
in december,775,he additionally served as settsu-no-kuni no kami(governor of settsu province)while okura-kyo(minister of the treasury);on july 7,776,he died.
