magoshichiro sugi
magoshichiro sugi(february 13,1835-may 3,1920)is a japanese samurai,from the choshu domain.
he was a government official during the meiji and taisho periods.
his imina(personal name)was juka.
his azana(courtesy name)was shika.
his common name was tokusuke,chujiro,shoyu kuro.
his go(pen name)was shojo,chou.
biography and personal profile
he was born as the second son of goroemon ueki in mihori village in the yoshiki county,suo province(currently yamaguchi city,yamaguchi prefecture)
he was adopted to sugi family,studied in meirinkan,a han(domain)school established by a daimyo(japanese territorial lord)during the edo period,as well as studied under shoin yoshida.
after working as a pageboy for the lord of domain,sugi,under the order of the domain,visited western countries with yasunori takeuchi and yasuhide matsudaira,who were envoys of the edo bakufu.
after returning from the trip to the western countries,sugi made efforts with kaoru inoue for peace negotiations of the shimonoseki war,while he opposed to military clashes against the conservative parties,during the domestic conflict of the genji period.
during the shikyo war(a civil war between the government and the choshu domain),sugi played a critical role as a staff officer for choshu.
after the meiji restoration,he became daisanji(second to a governor)of the yamaguchi domain.
in 1871 after the haihan-chiken(abolition of feudal domains and establishment of prefectures),sugi was assigned as kunai-taijo(post of imperial household ministry),prefectural governor of the akita prefecture,and kunai-taijo again.
in 1874,sugi became kunai shoyu(junior assistant minister of the sovereign's household),kunai-taifu(post of imperial household ministry)in 1877,assigned additional post of jiho(an aide)and became kotaigo gu no daibu(master of the empress dowager's household)later.
in 1887,sugi was conferred as viscount,and in 1906,became privy councilor.
he was good at calligraphy.
sugi's grave is located at the aoyama cemetery.
