sansetsu toyama
sansetsu toyama(dates of birth and death unknown)was an igo player(igo)who was active around the bunsei era.
he was from kyoto prefecture,his childhood name was kitaro,a disciple of genjo honinbo,sixth dan level.
playing of a game of igo against jowa honinbo at the memorial service for the 200th anniversary of sansa's death is well-known,which is regarded as a high-spirited match.
after retirement,he named himself as正阿弥or無阿弥.
he practiced in edo when he was young.
against genjo honinbo,he had a teaiwari(handicap)of sen ai sen(playing black then white then black),advancing to the fifth dan level,and returned to kyoto.
in 1822,the memorial service for the 200th anniversary of the death of sansa honinbo hoin(the highest rank in the hierarchy of buddhist priests)was held at jakko-ji temple in kyoto.
at that time,he played against jowa honinbo,the heir of honinbo family and a junior disciple(sansetsu took the first move).
even though it was a memorial igo match,it lasted for 4 days.
when sansetsu was about to take the 119th move,he passed out.
the observer inshuku hattori helped sansetsu to get up and he took the move,but he could not continue the match anymore and had to leave the game unfinished for the day.
at that time,sansetsu said 'when there is a hint of loss of the game,i have to continue playing this game even though i have to die afterward,' but inshuku replied 'it is difficult to judge who is winning,' and so the game was left unfinished.
later when being asked,sansetsu replied black would have won with three moves and jowa replied one move.
he taught a lot of disciples in kyoto,and later he bought a restaurant called円山正阿彌and retired.
jowa said, 'the techniques of(yamamoto)genkichi yamamoto,(inoue)insainseki inoue,(hayashi)genbi hayashi and sansetsu are level pegging,but in terms of the style of playing,sansetsu should be the best.'
in 1829,a ceremonial go-playing parlor was held by his disciples such as konosuke kawakita.
his books include 'okigo hissho.'
there is a kifu(record of a game of go)about the game he played in tagaisen style(two evenly strong go players play games taking first moves in turn)against chitokusenchi yasui in around 1792,and the game against yonezo shinomiya in kyoto in 1802;yonezo two stones,first move.
