tamesada nijo
tamesada nijo(c.1293-april 8,1360)was a poet from the end of kamakura period to the beginning of the northern and southern courts period.
he was the grandson of tameyo nijo,and the son of tamemichi nijo.
his mother was the daughter of masaari asukai.
his original name was tametaka.
his children include tametsura nijo,tameto nijo,sadayo nijo,tameari nijo,kakuge(kofuku-ji temple abbot),shokai and ryoju.
his official rank was sangi(royal advisor)in 1323,and ultimately reached shonii(senior second rank)minbukyo(minister of popular affairs)gon dainagon(provisional chief councilor of state).
his father died early,but instead he was inspired by his uncle tamefuji nijo and compiled the anthology 'shokugoshui wakashu' (later collection of gleanings,continued,16th imperial poetic anthology)as the successor.
at first,he attended the emperor godaigo who his sister(the mother of imperial prince kanenaga[kaneyoshi])served as noble courtiers,however,he stopped obeying the emperor after the genko incident.
in 1359,he was discovered by the northern court and compiled the anthology 'shinsenzai wakashu' (new collection of a thousand years,18th imperial poetic anthology)through the recommendations of yoshimoto nijo or takauji ashikaga-this kept the family of masters of kado(versification)during the turbulent times of northern and southern courts.
on august 25,1355,he went into the buddhist priesthood and took the name of shakku.
many of tamesada's waka(31 syllable poems)were selected in chokusen wakashu(anthologies by imperial command)such as "gyokuyo wakashu" (jeweled leaves collection,14th imperial anthology),and in shisen wakashu(anthologies privately compiled)such as "shoku genyo wakashu" (compiled by tameyo nijo).
his poetry books include "bunjo onhyakushu" (bunpo 100 poems).
there are two lineages of "tamesada shu" (tamesada collection)which contain his poems.
one was privately compiled and the other was the tamesada's family collection.
neither collection was compiled by tamesada,but were done in posterity.
