tadaaya hirohata
tadaaya hirohata(july 24,1824-february 18,1897)was a court noble during the late edo period and a politician during the meiji period.
he served three successive emperors,emperor ninko(the 120th emperor),emperor komei(the 121st emperor),and emperor meiji(the 120nd emperor),and he rose to shonii(senior 2nd rank)naidaijin(minister of the center).
during the meiji period,he became a member of kizokuin(the house of peers)and played an active role as a politician.
his father was naidaijin(the minister of the center)mototoyo hirohata.
his mother was the daughter of jusangu(honorary rank next to the three empresses:great empress dowager,empress dowager,and empress)masahiro takatsukasa.
his foster-father was kanpaku(chief advisor to emperor)tadahiro konoe.
his wife was tadahiro konoe's adopted daughter(mitsuaki otani's daughter).
tadatomo hirohata and yorimasa ikeda were his sons,and yukiyoshi aoyama's wife and nagatsune takakura's wife were his daughters.
after being raised to peerage in 1826,he gained rapid promotion for being the head of the seiga family,holding prominent positions such as jiju(chamberlain),ukone no gon no shosho(minor captain of the right division of inner palace guards),and sakone no gon no chujo(middle captain of the left division of inner palace guards),and in 1840 he was raised to jusanmi(junior 3rd rank)and became one of kugyo(top court officials).
afterwards,he took charge of toka no sechie geben(a kugyo who supervised many matters outside jomei gate at toka no sechie(imperial court ceremony,that took place on may 16)),chunagon(vice-chief councilor of state)and others,and in 1857,he became dainagon(chief councilor of state).
however,in 1863,while he was in the position of dainagon,he became entangled in the coup of august 18(old lunar calendar),an intrigue plotted by the bakufu(japanese feudal government headed by a shogun),and was suspended from visiting the imperial palace.
afterwards,he was pardoned and in 1867 he was appointed to naidaijin(minister of the center).
during the meiji period,he became a member of the peerage(marquis),and when the imperial diet was celebrated,he was appointed to a member of kizokuin(the house of peers)and had an active role.
