sadayuki hojo
sadayuki hojo was a busho(japanese military commander)of the end of the kamakura period.
he was an heir of sadaaki hojo and his family was kanesawa line of the hojo clan which was a branch family of the regent hojo clan.
using his yago(family name,house name),he was also called sadayuki kanesawa.
in 1318,he became a hyojoshu(a member of council of state)and served as hikitsukeshu tonin(also known as hikitsuke tonin,the chief coadjutor of the high court).
it was around this time that he got married,but who his lawful wife was is not known.
after the shochu disturbance in 1324,he became rokuhara tandai minamikata(southern chief of rokuhara tandai[an administrative and judicial agency in rokuhara,kyoto])and went to the capital(kyoto).
with his father sadaaki's maneuvering behind the scenes,he resigned his post as a rokuhara tandai in 1330,returned to kamakura city and was appointed as a hikitsuke tonin.
in 1333,when an army led by yoshisada nitta,who was a gokenin(an immediate vassal of the shogunate in the kamakura and muromachi through edo periods)of kozuke province,invaded kamakura in response to the rise of the emperor godaigo,sadayuki led the battle of tsurumi as a general of the army of the bakufu(japanese feudal government headed by a shogun)and after retreating to kamakura,he defended at kobukuro-zaka slope.
when he was defeated at kobukuro-zaka slope,he retreated back to tosho-ji temple(kamakura city)to greet takatoki hojo who was tokuso(the patrimonial head of the main branch of the hojo clan).
just before he made his last charge,he was granted the positions of both rokuhara tandai(northern and southern chief of rokuhara tandai),as well as shugo(provincial constable)of sagami province from takatoki for his loyalty.
on july 12,1333,he died after charging into the army of nitta.
his heroic last moments were also described in the war chronicle "taiheiki" (the record of the great peace).
career
date according to old lunar calendar
on an unknown date,he was granted jugoi(junior fifth rank)and became samanosuke(vice-minister of left division of bureau of horses).
in 1324,he was transferred to echigo no kami(provincial governor of echigo).
he became rokuhara tandai minamikata on november 1.
he was reassigned to musashi no kami(governor of musashi province)in 1327.
on leap june 28,1330,he resigned the post of rokuhara tandai.
on an unknown date,he became hikitsuke tonin.
after this,he was in the position until he died.
on may 21,1333,the regent moritoki hojo left the hojo family in sadayuki's charge and he called himself sagami no kami(governor of sagami province).
