munenaga yamaguchi
munenaga yamaguchi(the year of birth unknown-september 10,1600)was daimyo(japanese feudal lord)from the late sengoku period to the early edo period with 6,000 goku of daishoji domain,kaga province.
it was said he was the head of yodo-jo castle in omi province and genbaryo(a government official in charge of maintaining the list of priests and entertaining envoys from foreign countries)and genba no kami(the chief of genbaryo).
he is also called masahiro yamaguchi.
in 1597,he was sent into the kobayakawa family as an assistant to hideaki kobayakawa from the toyotomi government.
he conducted taiko-kenchi(hideyoshi toyotomi's nationwide cadastral surveys)in the kobayakawa territory and at the time of keicho no eki(one of japanese invasions of korea),he went to korea and assisted hidearki.
in the battle of ulsan,he commanded the kobayakawa force and rescued urusan wajo castle(japanese style castle)where kiyomasa kato and his followers confined themselves.
he was on bad terms with hideaki and when hideaki was transferred from chikuzen najima to echizen hokusho,he became the independent daimyo of kaga daishoji domain.
his children included nagahiro yamaguchi,the first son and ukyo no suke(assistant master of the western capital offices),hirosada yamaguchi,the second son and sameryo(trainer of the left of horses owned by the imperial court)and a wife of shigetoshi ikeda.
on september 3,1600,in the battle of sekigahara,toshiie maeda of kaga kanazawa domain seemed to make a sortie heading about 20,000 troops from kanazawa-jo castle and attack komatsu-jo castle,which was the western camp,nagamasa niwa's stronghold.
however,he suddenly changed his strategy and entered kaga matsuyama-jo castle on september 8.
when hearing that news,munenaga yamaguchi reinforced the defenses of daishoji-jo castle and sent envoys to kazunori aoki,the head of kitanosho-jo castle and nagashige niwa,the head of komatsu-jo castle in order to request for help,but it was too late.
two days later,toshinaga sent envoys,kurobei kuri and saemon murai to urge munenaga who confined himself in daishoji-jo castle to surrender.
munenaga rejected toshinaga's advice because he got infuriated over the toshinaga's attacks.
the maeda force increased the number of its troops and attacked the castle.
on the side of the yamaguchi force,munenaga's son,ukyo no suke,nagahiro took the initiative to defend and fight back making an ambush near the castle,but nagatoku yamamzaki,a spearhead of the maeda force,found it.
this was the time when the battle broke out.
the yamaguchi force,suffering a defeat outside,picked up its soldiers and immediately got ready for the battle in its stronghold.
in addition to the spearhead,the yamazaki squad,another squad such as the tsuratatsu cho squad joined the maeda force and fought desperately outside of the castle.
nagahiro ymamguchi valiantly made a sortie and did damage to the maeda force,but he was saluted with a volley from the gun squad of the maeda force and he was forced to retreat to the castle.
the huge maeda force advanced upon the enemy,but the yamaguchi force headed by munenaga and nagahiro fought back dauntlessly.
however,the yamaguchi force with about 500 troops was no match for the heavy force with 20,000 troops,therefore,eventually,munenaga announced the surrender over the wall.
but,the maeda force did not accept it,because they lost a lot of soldiers and they rushed into the castle out of revenge.
on the evening of september 10,daishoji-jo castle finally fell.
the graves of munenaga yamaguchi and nagahiro yamaguchi were in zensho-ji temple located in daishoji shinmei-cho,kaga city,ishikawa prefecture.
hirosada yamaguchi,the child munenage left behind,carried out his father's last wish and entered osaka-jo castle.
the descendants served matsue domain and after the meiji restoration,one of the descendants,muneyoshi yamaguchi became the director of the bank of japan.
his son,the vice admiral,tamon yamaguchi took the initiative to the second aviation squadron in the battle of midway island at the time of the world warⅱand then,he was killed in action.
muneyoshi's great-great-grandchild is a racing driver,rei yamaguchi..
