shigeyuki hosokawa
shigeyuki hosokawa(1434-october 13,1511)was a shugo daimyo(shugo,which were japanese provincial military governors,that became daimyo,which were japanese feudal lords)of awa,mikawa and sanuki provinces in the muromachi period.
his main name was genji(minamoto clan).
his family line was the hosokawa clan which was a branch family of the ashikaga clan with its founder,minamoto no yoshikuni,a son of minamoto no yoshiie,the chinju-fu shogun(commander-in-chief of the defense of the north)who was the head of the kawachi-genji(minamoto clan),a family line of the seiwa-genji(minamoto clan).
he was a sons of norisuke hosokawa.
he was an adopted son of mochitsune hosokawa.
his official court rank was hyobushoyu(deputy minister of military arm),sanuki no kami(the governor of sanuki province).
he was the father of masayuki hosokawa,yoshiharu hosokawa(real father of sumimoto hosokawa who took over as head of the hosokawa keicho family),etc.
he took over as head of the family in 1449,and became the shugo of awa and mikawa provinces.
he belonged to the eastern camp at the onin war.
he became the shugo of sanuki province in 1473.
he became a priest in his later years.
he died at the age of 78 in 1511.
he had been the shugo of mikawa province from 1449 to 1478.
thereafter,it is unknown who was appointed to the shugo of mikawa province.
the ronin uprising in nukata county broke out by maruyama nakatsukasa nyudo and jirozaemon oniwa,etc.in 1465,and shigeyuki thought that nobumitsu matsudaira and munemitsu toda(zenkyu),subordinates of the mandokoro shitsuji(chief of mandokoro,the administrative board),sadachika ise,would pull the strings behind the scenes.
then,since shigeyuki had no right to command these two,he petitioned the seii taishogun(literally, "great general who subdues the barbarians"),yoshimasa ashikaga in kyoto,and had nobumitsu matsudaira and munemitsu toda(zenkyu),both hikans(low-level bureaucrats)of sadachika ise,subdue the uprising by order of the shogunate.
he is known as a man of culture representing the higashiyama culture.
