minamoto no kunifusa
minamoto no kunifusa(year of birth and death unknown)is a busho(japanese military commander)in the mid heian period.
he is from a family of seiwa-genji(minamoto clan),and was born from settsu-genji(minamoto clan)as the sixth son of minamoto no yorikuni.
he is the founder of mino-genji(minamoto clan).
his mother is unknown.
his brothers are minamoto no yorihiro,minamoto no yorisuke,minamoto no yorizane,minamoto no sanekuni,minamoto no yoritsuna,minamoto no moromitsu and rokujosaiin no senji.
one theory says that he was adopted by his older brother minamoto no yoritsuna(according to "sonpi bunmyaku" [a text compiled in the fourteenth century that records the lineages of the aristocracy]).
he is the father of minamoto no mitsukuni(morotoki),mitsutoshi,mitsutada and a wife of minamoto no nobumasa.
shogoinoge(senior fifth rank,lower grade),kurodo(chamberlain),kebiishi(officials with judicial and police powers),jibujo(a secretary of civil administration ministry),izu no kuni no kami(the governor of izu province),tosa no kuni no kami(the governor of tosa province)and shinano no kuni no kami(governor of shinano province).
while working as a middle rank of noble at the provincial governor rank in kyoto,he worked toward establishment of his power in mino province where his grandfather served as the kokushi(provincial governor).
because he humiliated the retainers of minamoto no yoshiie in mino province in 1064,a battle occurred against yoshiie who came to attack the residence of kunifusa in retaliation("suisaki" [diary of minamoto no toshifusa]and "hyakuren sho" [history book from the kamakura period]).
in tagi district in 1079,he fought in the big battle against minamoto no shigemune,who was also based in mino province,therefore the both parties were summoned to imperial court later,and kunifusa was confined in yuniwa for the duel.
during this time he served as shinano no kuni no kami(the governor of shinano province),and then was appointed as izu no kuni no kami(the governor of izu province)at shogatsu no jimoku(appointment ceremonies at new year's day)in 1096.
this appointment as zuryo(the head of the provincial governors)at jimoku seems to have been greatly affected by the intention of the retired emperor shirakawa,therefore kunifusa seems to have been close to the retired emperor shirakawa.
at around the same time,he served as a shoji(administrator of a manor)of akanabe no sho(manor),the estate of todai-ji temple,but he was dismissed as shoji because he added the west area of the manor to his neighboring private land in the uzura village.
he was ranked at jugoinojo(junior fifth rank,upper grade)in 1099.
in 1106,he conspired with ninyo,a monk of enryaku-ji temple,to intrude into onari no sho(manor)in owari province.
his home ground,uzura village was succeeded by his eldest son mitsukuni.
