nobushige oda(daimyo,feudal lord)
nobushige oda(august 9,1843-february 17,1898)was the twelfth lord of the yanagimoto domain in yamato province(nara prefecture).
he was the twelfth of the oda family in naonaga linage.
nobushige was the ninth son of nobuakira oda,the eleventh lord.
his lawful wife was yone(yoneko),the fourth daughter of mitsukazu nishimura.
he had three sons.
nobushige's childhood name was manjukuro.
he was initially named hideshige.
his official court rank was jugoinoge(junior fifth rank,lower grade),the governor of chikuzen province.
later,he was promoted to shoshii(senior fourth rank).
nobushige was born in yanagimoto on august 9,1843.
nobuakira,his father,initially decided nobutomi,his third son,as his heir.
however,nobutomi died in 1856,therefore,nobuakira newly decided nobushige,his ninth son,as his heir.
nobushige inherited the family estate on january 30,1858.
he had omemie(the privilege to have an audience)with shogun iesada tokugawa on november 27,1860.
he was appointed to jugoinoge,the governor of chikuzen province on january 26,1861.
sunpu-kaban(guards of sunpu-jo castle)was abolished on october 1,1862,and thereby he was exempted from becoming kaban in fall.
he repaired the mausoleum of emperor sujin in the domain from 1864 to 1865.
at the time of meiji restoration,nobushige could not act proactively because his domain was weak,therefore,he repeatedly applied to postpone to go up to kyoto on the grounds of illness.
he sent nobuhiro,his real younger brother,to kyoto after observing the defeat of the former edo bakufu(japanese feudal government headed by a shogun)army in the battle of toba and fushimi and the circumstances after that.
he retired and transferred the family estate to nobuhiro oda,the adopted son,on june 25,1868.
nobushige moved from kyoto to tokyo on june 11,1874.
it seems that he temporarily lived in kyoto after the meiji restoration.
he assumed the role of serving under emperor in march 1885 and served to emperor meiji.
he was dismissed due to the abolishment of serving under emperor in july of the same year.
nobushige died at the age of fifty-six on february 17,1898.
