fujiwara no tamemitsu
born in 942 and gone on july 23,992,fujiwara no tamemitsu was a court noble in the middle of the heian period.
he was the ninth son of fujiwara no morosuke.
his mother was imperial princess masako who was the princess of emperor daigo.
his legal wife was the daughter of fujiwara no atsutoshi and the daughter of his elder half brother fujiwara no koretada.
his children were fujiwara no sanenobu,fujiwara no tadanobu,fujiwara no michinobu,fujiwara no yoshiko(nyogo(an imperial consort)of emperor kazan),the wife of fujiwara no yoshichika and others.
his posthumous name is kotokuko.
he is also called goichijo dajodaijin,or hojuji-dono.
in 957,he received the investiture of jugoinoge(junior fifth rank,lower grade),and together with the enthronement of emperor reizei,he rose to kurodo(chamberlain).
tamemitsu was then apponited as sachuben(middle controller of the left)in 968,and after holding kurodo no to(head chamberlain)at the enthronement of emperor enyu&other positions,he rose to sangi(the royal adviser)in 970.
favored by his elder half brother koretada&by fujiwara no kanemichi,tamemitsu leapfrogged to gon chunagon(a provisional vice-councilor of state)in 973 over senior six sangi,and he also received the investiture of jusanmi(junior third rank)at the same time.
in 975,he was given the title of chunagon(vice-councilor of state),and in the next year,he received the investiture of shosanmi(senior third rank).
in 977,he rose to shonii(senior second rank)and dainagon(chief councilor of state),and rose to the top of daingon,overtaking his elder half brother fujiwara no kaneie who was treated coldly by kanemichi.
after kanemichi died,kaneie went over to tamemitsu once again by assuming udaijin(minister of the right),and in his later years,kaneie entered into a struggle with tamemitsu for the positions of regent and chief adviser to the emperor.
after the enthronement of emperor kazan,tamemitsu made her daughter yoshiko enter dairi(the inner palace)at the emperor's request.
because yoshiko won the favor of the emperor,her father tamemitsu held equal weight in the court as compared to fujiwara no yoshichika(the emperor's relative on its mother's side and tamemitsu's younger brother-in-law&tamemitsu's son-in-law),and tanemitsu's influence is exemplified by his appointment to naikyusho(the office entrusted by the emperor in exchange for some rewards).
however,yoshiko's sudden death caused emperor kazan to become a priest,and afterwards,emperor ichijo ascended the throne and kaneie,who was the new emperor's maternal grandfather,became regent,frustrating tamemitsu with his ambition.
however,kaneie tried to cooperate with tamemitsu to counterbalance minamoto no masanobu who then sadaijin(minister of the left),so tamemitsu was appointed to udaijin in 986 and received the investiture of juichii(junior first rank)the next year.
meanwhile,this cooperation put tamemitsu under the influence of kaneie and kaneie's heir fujiwara no michitaka.
in 991,tamemitsu was appointed to daijo-daijin(grand minister of state)on michitaka's recommendation,but tamemitsu died the next year.
after his death,he was presented with shoichii(senior first rank)and sagami province.
his niece fujiwara no akiko inherited his residence ichijoin.
tamemitsu is also known for his building hoju-ji temple(in the present kyoto city).
he left "hojuji shokoku ki" (his diary)behind.
