owari no osumi
owari no osumi(date of birth and death unknown)lived in the asuka period of japan.
his family name owari(尾張)was also written as尾治(the pronunciation was the same).
according to the old japanese syllabary characters,it is considered that his name had been pronounced as 'wofari no ofosumi.'
his kabane(hereditary title)was muraji,and shifted to sukune later.
during the jinshin war in 672,he provided prince oama(emperor tenmu)his private house.
he was given posthumously the rank of jugoinojo(junior fifth rank,upper grade).
the name of owari no osumi is not mentioned in the description of the jinshin war in "nihonshoki" (chronicles of japan).
osumi's great achievement is described in the article of december 9,757 in "shoku nihongi" (chronicle of japan continued).
according to it,when prince oama(emperor tenmu)left yoshino no miya(yoshino palace)for kanto region(in this case,the east of suzuka-no-seki checkpoint),owari no osumi cleaned up his private house to provide them with it as angu(temporary lodging for emperor)and helped them with war funds.
in the light of behavioral record of prince oama in "nihonshoki",it's generally understood that the angu was located in nogami in mino province.
however,it has been also said that the angu was a residence in ise province imperial princess uno no sarara(the wife of prince oama,later became empress jito)had lived.
on december 2,684,fifty clans having the kabane of muraji including owari no muraji were given the new kabane of sukune(third highest of the eight hereditary titles)by emperor tenmu.
on may 8,696,empress jito gave owari no sukune osumi the rank of jikikoshi and rice fields 40 cho(396,720 square meters).
in 716,when his son,owari no inagi,was given rice fields for osumi's service,owari no sukune osumi was recorded as jugoinojo(junior fifth rank,upper grade),posthumously conferred.
with '贈(posthumously conferred)' added,it's obvious that osumi was deceased at that time,and it is presumable that the date of his death had been between 701 and 716 since the rank of jugoinojo was used in and after 701.
later,on december 9,757,daijokan(grand council of state)discussed the background of koden(rice field given to vassals or their families for their achievements)40 cho which had been given for owari no osumi's achievements,and decided that his deeds was joko(first-grade achievement)and the koden should be passed for three generations.
