tsuneosa kashuji
tsuneosa kashuji(although he was born on november 21,1825,his birthday was officially recorded as november 18,1828):in "yamashiro no kuni kyoto sodeoka genbanosuke kaki" (the family chronicle of genbanosuke sodeoka in kyoto,yamashiro province),(housed in the national institute of japanese literature),written by fumikage sodeoka,a jige official(the government officials of lower-ranked courtiers who were not allowed to enter the court)and a zassho(or karei:butler)served for the kashuji family,who was asked to be a private tutor of tsuneosa by nariko kashuji,it is read '.....mansenhime who came to the family as a bride gave a birth to tsuneosa on october twelfth in the eighth year of the bunsei era,so tsuneosa's true age was fifteen years old this year;however it was recorded that he was only twelve years old when he was conferred jugoinoge(junior fifth rank,lower grade)as his first court rank....' in the section of april 8,the tenth year of the tempo era,which means his age was reported three years younger than actual for the official recording.
in the same section,the age of tsuneharu honami(akomaru),the older brother of tsuneosa,born on august 7,1824 according to the official record,was mentioned one year younger when he succeeded to the honami family.
in this paragraph,the birthday in the family chronicle is adopted.
for detail information,refer to 'on zassho(or karei:butler)of the kashuji family,the toshokuge(high court nobility who is allowed to enter the imperial palace)of late modern ages---"kaki" (the family chronicle)written by fumikage sodeoka,kurodogata jigekanjin(lower-ranked courtiers who were not allowed to enter the court official of chamberlain's office)' as an example" by shintaro nishimura(the first appearance was in "proceedings of historical museum" no.34[march,2003])included in 'zassho jigekanjin of toshokuge' (addition and alteration to the original)and "the medieval imperial court and jigekanjin" (yoshikawa kobunkan inc.,2008)isbn 978-4-642-02330-6 p274-275).
tsuneosa passed away on august 5,1871,and was a kuge(court noble)in the end of the edo period.
tsuneosa was the third son of tsunetoki kashuji.
he was adopted by akiteru kashuji(adopted son of tsunetoki).
his childhood name was inamaru.
his biological brother was tsuneharu honami and his son was akiyoshi kashuji(a count).
he was born after his biological father,tsunetoki,gave the reigns of the kashuji family to his cousin,akiteru.
the succession to the family caused a confrontation over the heir to akiteru between tsunetaka and akiteru involving the vassals of the kashuji family.
the confrontation was settled in the following way;tsuneosa's older brother,tsuneharu,and tsunenori honami(a son of akiteru)were adopted by the honami family(tsuneharu succeeded to the honami family and adopted tsunenori),and tsuneosa succeeded to the kashuji family and was conferred jugoinoge(junior fifth rank,lower grade)on may 20,1839.
tsuneosa participated in teishin hachiju-hachi kyo ressan jiken(demo of eighty-eight retainers of imperial court)together with his foster father,akiteru and tsunenori honami.
although tsuneosa was appointed to ushoben(minor controller of the right)in 1863 and kurodo(chamberlain)in 1864,he was dismissed from the government posts and placed under house arrest over the charge of the involvement of kinmon incident(conspiracy of kinmon)as the kashuji family had been the shisso family(the family which served as the intermediary between the court and the shogunate government)of the mori clan.
in january 1868,he was forgiven and appointed to jushiinoge uchuben(junior fourth rank,lower grade,middle controller of the right)in may.
