kiyotada bomon
kiyotada bomon(date of birth unknown-april 11,1338)was a court noble who lived in the period of the northern and southern courts.
his formal name was fujiwara no kiyotada.
his alias was bomon no saisho.
saisho is a chinese style name of sangi(councillor).
his father was toshisuke bomon who was sakone no chujo(middle captain of the left division of inner palace guards).
career
he flourished as an aide to emperor godaigo.
in 1326,he entered benkan(oversight department:division of the daijokan responsible for controlling central and provincial governmental offices).
the following year,he was given the rank of jusanmi(junior third rank),but he was still hisangi(advisor at large).
when emperor godaigo began the kemmu restoration,he was promoted to the rank of junii(junior second rank)and the position of okurakyo(chief administrator of the ministry of the treasury)which was a key position.
in 1335,he strongly opposed takauji ashikaga's proposal of defeating yoshisada nitta to the throne.
it is known that he rejected masashige's strategic proposal of abandonment of kyoto city saying "it is not a good idea for the emperor to leave the imperial city so often" when he made masashige kusunoki counter takauji's army which escaped to the western part of japan(esp.kyushu,but ranging as far east as kinki)after the rebellion,and then proceeded east again.
as a result,masashige kusunoki died in the battle of minatogawa and kiyotada gained an infamous reputation for having not understood the tactic and rejected the proposal of his royal subject,masashige.
since takauji ashikaga recaptured kyoto city,kiyotada went to yoshino district with emperor godaigo in december,1336 and died two years later.
chronology of government posts and ranks
february 1326:entered benkan.
january 1327:given the rank of shoshiinojo(senior fourth rank,upper grade).
april 1327:promoted to the rank of jusanmi(junior third rank)and was still hisangi.
bissextile september,1327:assumed the position of chief of the zokofuku-ji temple.
march 1328:assumed the position of sangi.
september 1328:also assumed the position of sakyo no daibu(master of the western capital).
january 1329:assumed the position of provisional governor of suo province.
february 1329:resigned from the position of provisional governor of suo province and udaiben(major.controller of the right).
promoted to the rank of shosanmi(senior third rank).
november 1330:returned to the same position.
january 1331:resigned from the position again.
june 1333:assumed the position of udaiben.
september 1333:also assumed the position of chief of the zokofuku-ji temple.
january 1334:also assumed the position of provisional governor of shinano province.
september 1334:promoted to the rank of junii(junior second rank)and assumed the position of okura-kyo(chief administrator of the ministry of the treasury)and kamogyokogyoji.
december 1336:deprived of the government post(due to his going to yoshino district).
january 1337:assumed the position of sadaiben,(major controller of the left).
march 21:1338,passed away.
