norifusa uesugi
norifusa uesugi
he lived during kamakura period to the period of the northern and southern courts.
refer to the first part.
he lived during muromachi period.
he was a son of norifusa uesugi.
refer to masafuji uesugi,another name.
he lived during the sengoku period(period of warring states).
he served as a kanto kanrei(a shogunal deputy for the kanto region).
refer to the latter part.
norifusa uesugi(lived during the period of the northern and southern courts).
norifusa uesugi was a busho(japanese military commander)lived during kamakura period and the period of the northern and southern courts.
he was a grandchild of the first uesugi clan shigefusa uesugi and a maternal uncle of the first seii taishogun(literally, "great general who subdues the barbarians")of muromachi bakufu(japanese feudal government headed by a shogun)takauji ashikaga and tadayoshi ashikaga.
he achieved success in the overthrow of kamakura bakufu so he was given the posts of a jitoshiki(manager and lord of manor)in izu province and a shugoshiki(military governor)in kozuke province to take a role for putting a check on yoshisada nitta.
although he went to the capital(kyoto)with takauji who rebelled against the new kenmu government,they were counterattacked by akiie kitabatake and yoshisada nitta so that takauji ran away from kyoto to kyushu region.
norifusa was killed in this battle to let takauji go.
his sons,noriaki uesugi and norifuji uesugi,each became the founder of the yamauchi-uesugi family and the inukake-uesugi family.
norifusa uesugi(lived during the sengoku period).
norifusa uesugi was a daimyo(japanese feudal lord)lived during japan's sengoku period.
he was a son of shusei(周清),who entered the priesthood(also written as秀晟or周尋)and was a son of norizane uesugi.
he became the head of the yamauchi-uesugi clan as an adopted heir of kanto kanrei(a shogunal deputy for the kanto region)akisada uesugi.
although he went into battle to defeat tamekage nagao with akisada and was stationed at shiroi-jo castle in kozuke province,he withdrew when akisada was killed in the battle of nagamorihara.
akizane uesugi(a son of shigeuji ashikaga)had succeeded the post of kanto kanrei in accordance with a will of akisada,but norifusa disputed and won to succeed the reign of the yamanouchi-uesugi clan in 1512 and also succeeded the post of kanto kanrei at akizane's death in 1515.
but he was struck down by illness to die on march 25,1525 at the age of 59 in the unstable conditions such as an estrangement of his vassal kageharu nagao,and struggles with the ogigayatsu-uesugi family tomooki uesugi,the gohojo clan of sagami province ujitsuna hojo and the takeda clan of kai province nobutora takeda for many years.
norihiro,the second son of koga kubo(the ashikaga clan in kanto region)takamoto ashikaga and an adopted child,succeeded at first but norihiro was thrown out and his real son norimasa succeeded later.
