taira no narimoto
taira no narimoto(year of birth unknown-1109)is a busho(japanese military commander)in the late heian period.
his second name is saburo kashima-kaja of the kashima clan.
father is taira no kiyomoto(hitachi yoshida clan)from the daijo clan,hitachi-heishi(taira clan).
his brothers are taira no narimoto(taro yoshida),taira no tadamoto(yukikata clan),and his sister got married to minamoto no yoshinari(founder of the satake clan)of the hitachi-genji clan.
family/clan
father:taira no kiyomoto(hitachi-yoshida clan)
mother:unknown
eldest brother:taira no narimoto(taro yoshida)
the second elder brother:taira no tadamoto(yukikata clan)
sister:lawful wife of minamoto no yoshinari
the eldest son:平親幹(founder of tokushuku clan)
the third son:taira no masamoto(inherited the kashima clan,and succeeds the ancestral name,saburo kashima)
the sixth son:taira no yorimoto(founder of rin clan)
stepbrother:minamoto no yoshinari
sister's father in law:minamoto no yoshimitsu(shinra-saburo)
the lord
minamoto no yoshimitsu
territory,castle of daimyo(feudal lord)
kashima-gun,hitachi province(ibaraki prefecture)kashima district,kashima-jo castle.
assassination of minamoto no yoshitada
executioner of this assassination.
he received the order given from the lord,minamoto no yoshimitsu,and became a retainer of minamoto no yoshitada.
fujiwara no suekatawho was also serving minamoto no yoshimitsu took the sword from minamoto no yoshiaki,and using it,attacked minamoto no yoshitada from behind.
however,yoshitada did not die on the spot,and due to the counter attack,narimoto was also injured.
since yoshitada was bleeding heavily,he died soon after.
narimoto reported the result to the lord,yoshimitsu.
yoshimitsu told the injured narimoto to go to enjo-ji temple on hiei-zan mountain to rest and deliver a letter to yoshimitsu's young brother,kaiyo.
in the letter was an order to kill narimoto.
due to this letter,narimoto was burried alive by kaiyo in order to keep everything a secret.
looking from the way this story has come out,it is possible that narimoto told someone this story by leaving a message of some sort.
the descendant
kamo serizawa,the descendant,who was the head of shinsengumi in the end of edo period was from the serizawa clan of the upper grade country samurai of serizawa castle in serizawa-mura,hitachi province,and had the real name of taira no mitsumoto.
