taira no masahira
taira no masahira(year of birth and death unknown)was a busho(japanese military commander)who lived during the mid-heian period.
he was the son of taira no yoshimochi and the younger brother of taira no masakado.
he called himself 'shiro oashihara' because he lived in oashihara,toyota county.
he appears as the fifth son in "sonpi bunmyaku" (bloodlines of noble and base),and as the fourth son in "soma keizu" (the soma family tree)because the eldest son taira no masamochi does not appear.
he was appointed as assistant governor of kozuke province by masakado in person.
summary
regarding his older brother masakado's succession as the new emperor,he tried to reprimand him along with iwa no kazutsune,but masakado did not listen.
probably because of this,he is appointed as assistant governor of kozuke province by new emperor masakado in "soma keizu," but in other documents such as "shomon ki" (the chronicle of masakado)taji no tsuneakira is appointed as assistant governor of kozuke province,not masahira.
in february,940,when masakado was defeated and killed in the war against taira no sadamori and fujiwara no hidesato,his power instantly collapsed,and it is said that masahira hid himself in the jomine mountain in chichibu county,saitama prefecture,and his grave is in enpuku-ji temple in minano-machi town in the same area.
"shomon ki" (the chronicle of masakado)
the remonstrance of masahira
first of all,the work of the emperor should not be sought by human wisdom.'
nor gained by force.'
from the olden days up to now,both the monarch who ruled the world and the emperor who inherited the foundation and work from his ancestors have received all these from heaven.'
how can one weigh and consider all this so easily?'
if you do such a thing,you are sure to invite indignity of the future generations.
please think about it.'
(translation) 'first of all,the work of the emperor should not be sought by human wisdom nor gained by force.'
from the olden days up to now,both the monarch who ruled the world and the emperor who inherited the foundation and work from his ancestors have received all these from heaven,and how can one weigh and consider all this so easily?'
if you do such a thing,you are sure to invite indignity of the future generations.'
please think about it.'
