chikamasa ikoma
chikamasa ikoma was a daimyo who lived from the azuchi momoyama period to the early edo period.
he was one of the sanchuros(arbitration office).
he was a son of chikashige ikoma.
he was born in dota,kani district,mino province(present day dota,kani city,gifu prefecture).
kazumasa ikoma is his child.
career
he became a vassal of nobunaga in 1566 when nobunaga attacked mino.
then he was assigned to be attached to hideyoshi toyotomi and joined the battle of nagashino,the siege of the ishiyama hongan-ji temple,attacking saiga of kii province and so on.
after nobunaga died in 1582,as a vassal of hideyoshi he joined and performed well in the battle of yamazaki,the battle of shizugatake,the siege of odawara,the bunroku campaign and so on and was given sanuki province 171.8 thousand koku crop yields.
earlier,he had looked after senmatsumaru sogo,the legitimate son of masayasu sogo,who had been the former lord of sanuki and killed in the battle of hetsugigawa,but he is said to have ordered his nephew uneme otsuka to kill senmatsumaru with poison in order to plow with 20 thousand koku crop yields which was the property inheritance left to senmatsumaru.
after that,he was known for clamping down on those who were related to the miyoshi clan to eliminate the chance of the sogo clan coming back.
in hideyoshi's later year being appointed as one of the sanchuros along with kazuuji nakamura and yoshiharu horio,he participated in the toyotomi government
in the battle of sekigahara in 1600 his son kazumasa ikoma was on the part of the east squad while chikamasa,staying in his territory,was on the side of the west squad and delegated his vassal to join the siege of tanabe-jo castle in tango province.
he took the measure of keeping the ikoma clan alive whichever side would be defeated.
after the battle the ownership of the territory of the ikoma clan was approved for the reason of kazumasa's being on the part of the east squad.
in order to take the responsibility of having been on the part of the west squad chikamasa took the tonsure to enter a monastery in mt.koya after he transferred responsibility for the family to kazumasa,but soon he was granted a pardon and came back to sanuki,and died in takamatsu-jo castle(sanuki province)in 1603.
