sanekage mushanokoji
sanekage mushanokoji(december 22,1661-november 11,1738)was a court noble and poet from the early to middle edo period.
his pseudonym was chogakuin.
his biological father was sanenobu saiko,who was a court noble from a branch line of the ogimachisanjo family and served for a retired emperor,and he was adopted by kintane mushanokoji from high court nobility.
the adoption of sanekage ended the saiko family line,but it was restored later by sigesue,the second son of sanekage.
the emperor reigen who was his teacher of waka(traditional japanese poetry)gave him lectures on kokinshu,an anthology of old an new waka poems.
he was one of the best poets in the emperor reigen's poetry circle together with sanenari shimizudani and michimi nakanoin.
jiun was his disciple.
he served the imperial court for a long time as hisangi(advisor at large)and sangi(councilor),and in 1715 he was appointed as chunagon(vice-councilor of state)at the age of 55.
in 1724,he was promoted to dainagon(chief councilor of state)at the age of 64,and made the following waka poem in response to a congratulation waka poem sent by his predecessor,dainagon kinsumi shigenoi.
"at an old age,how unexpected it is to climb such a blessing mt.kurai(kurai also means "rank")."
further in 1738,just before his death,he received the court rank of juichii(junior first rank)and was appointed as jun-daijin(vice minister),exceptionally high for a person from a branch family of the rank of urinke(family rank with which one could be promoted up to dainagon).
it is considered as a result of the appreciation of his long service for the imperial court and great contribution to poetry,such as his being a poetry teacher for both the emperor nakamikado and emperor sakuramachi.
he had a deep friendship with the imperial prince ichijoinnomiya sonsho,son of the emperor reigen,as they were both poets.
his works include treatises on poetry called 'shogaku kokan' and 'shirin shushu(compiled by jiun)' and his personal poetry collection 'hounshu(compiled by saneoka mushanokoji).'
his descendents include famous poets such as kinsachi takamatsu.
having a long life and being a poet,he left a large number of calligraphy.
