taima no kunimi(tagima no kunimi)
taima no kunimi(or tagima no kunimi,date of birth and death unknown)was a figure in the asuka period.
his family name taima当摩was also written as taima当麻;his kabane(hereditary title)was kimi,later given a higher kabane,mahito.
it is said that he was a grandson of tagima no miko and a son of tagima no toyohama,but it is unclear.
at the jinshin war of 672,kunimi supported oama no miko(oshiama no miko or prince oama who became emperor tenmu following the victory in the war),and he served three consecutive generations of emperor tenmu,empress jito and emperor monmu.
it has been said that kunimi supported to build taima-dera temple(in present katsuragi city,nara prefecture).
although "nihonshoki" (chronicle of japan)has no description of kunimi's role in the jinshin war, "shoku nihongi" (chronicle of japan continued)describes that he was given a salary of a hundred fuko(100 taxed families)for his merit,which shows he played some important role fighting for oama no miko in its article about july 21of the first year of the taiho era(may 7,701).
in november 684,a new rank system yakusa no kabane(the eight honorary titles)was applied,and kunimi's kabane was changed from kimi to mahito.
the taima clan was branched out from the imperial family,and originated from maroko no miko who was a prince of emperor yomei.
on october 22,686,at the funeral of emperor tenmu,ranked as jikidaisan(the thirteenth grade of jikidai rank for vassals of the forty-eight grades of cap rank,which corresponds to shogoinojo,senior fifth rank,upper grade of taiho ritsuryo,taiho code),kunimi delivered an eulogy for hidarimiginotoneri(the imperial guards).
therefore,he is considered to have served emperor tenmu at some post in charge of the military affairs.
on march 28,697,ranked as jikikoichi(the tenth grade of jikiko rank for vassals of the forty-eight grades of cap rank,which corresponds to shoshiinoge,senior fourth rank,lower grade of taiho ritsuryo,taiho code),kunimi was appointed to togu no daifu(mikonomiya no okikashizuki,head teacher of the crown prince),and the appointed staff were michi no tomi as togu no daibu(master in the crown prince's quarters)and kose no awamochi togu no suke(assistant master in the crown prince's quarters)
as togu no daifu was in charge of education for the crown prince,kunimi served karu no miko(prince karu,later emperor monmu).
on august 25,697,karu no miko succeeded to the throne by empress jito's abdication,so presumably kunimi was discharged from mikonomiya no okikashizuki at the same time.
on november 20,699,kunimi was ordered to repair the tomb of empress saimei as well as kinunui no okimi,haji no nemaro and tanaka no norimaro and to take four hangan(kotowarutsukasa or inspector),two sakan(fubito or secretary)and two daiku(carpenter)with them.
at that time,his rank was jikidaiichi(the ninth grade of jikidai rank for vassals of the forty-eight grades of cap rank,which corresponds to shoshiinojo,senior fourth rank,upper grade of taiho ritsuryo,taiho code).
after the repair,his achievements were not recorded.
chronological list
in 672,kunimi played some important role supporting oama no miko in the jinshin war.
on november 16,684,his kabane was changed from kimi to mahito.
on october 22,686,he delivered an eulogy at the funeral of emperor tenmu.
at that time,his rank was jikidaisan.
on march 28,697,he became togu no daifu.
at that time,his rank was jikikoichi.
on november 20,699,he was sent to repair ochinoyama no misasagi(the tomb on mt.ochi).
at that time,his rank was jikidaiichi.
