fujiwara no morishige
fujiwara no morishige(years of his birth and death not known)was a samurai(warrior)who lived in the heian period.
he was a son of fujiwara no kuninaka who was from the line of fujiwara no yoshikado,who was the sixth son of fujiwara no fuyutsugu from the northern house of the fujiwara clan.
he had brothers including fujiwara no morinaka,fujiwara no sadashige,fujiwara no takanaka,fujiwara no kunimori,and nenson and he had sons including fujiwara no moritoshi,fujiwara no morimichi,fujiwara no morikata,fujiwara no morimune,fujiwara no morishige(藤原盛成),fujwiara no moritsuna,fujiwara no morikage,and choshun(重舜).
his rank was jugoinojo(junior fifth rank,upper grade)and his position was kebiishi(office of police and judicial chief).
he held various positions such as kokushi(provincial governor)of sagami province and kokushi of shinano province in succession.
he named himself kondo uemon no jo.
he was from suo province and his childhood name was imainumaru(or senjumaru)and,at first,he served in todai-ji temple as a page.
when the emperor shirakawa made an imperial visit to nanto(nara),he noticed that imainumaru was handsome and took the boy,enlisting him into the emperor's service as a chodo(sodomy partner).
since then,he attended shirakawain and,after his genpuku(the coming-of-age ceremony for a boy in the old days),he served takashina no tsunetoshi as a vassal.
his name as hokumen no bushi(imperial guards)can be seen in "shirakawa joko koya gokoki" (the retired emperor shirakawa's visit to mt.koya)in 1088 and,in "chuyuki" (diary of fujiwara no munetada),we can confirm that he was in the position of kebiishi since april 25,1102.
in 1108,when fujiwara no sukezane(藤原佐実)had his topknot cut in the free-for-all with minamoto no nakamasa,he became famous by arresting the offender in accordance with the order of fujiwara no tadazane,who was sessho,based on shirakawain's will.
in 1113,on the occasion of the so-called 'eikyu no goso' (direct petition in eikyu era),together with taira no masamori,taira no tadamori,minamoto no tameyoshi,and minamoto no mitsukuni,he was dispatched to suppress priests of the kofuku-ji temple and,in the same year,he arrested ninkan,who was a priest of the daigo-ji temple and accused of curse against the emperor toba.
due to this,he was assigned the position of the kebiishi no jo(no.3 official of the police and judicial chief)to his heir,morimichi.
