taira no koremochi
taira no koremochi(881-january 3,940)was a noble in the early heian period.
he was the second son of taira no korenori,who was a son of taira no takamune(prince takamune),and he was a great-great-grandson of emperor kanmu.
taira no tokimochi was his older half brother,who was a daughter of the governor of hitachi province,shihon(the fourth-ranked imperial prince)danjoin(president of the board of censors)imperial prince saneyasu.
he had平統理,平善理,and taira no sanemochi as his children.
career
*dates are in the old lunar calendar.
on november 23,895,he was promoted to jugoinoge(junior fifth rank,lower grade).
on may 15,897,he has appointed governor of owari province.
on april 5,905,he was transferred to nakatsukasasho(ministry of central affairs).
on january 17,909,his court rank was raised to jugoinojo(junior fifth rank,upper grade).
retained his position as nakatsukasa no shoyu(junior assistant minister of the ministry of central affairs).
on february 15,911,he was given a concurrent appointment as an officer in kageyushi(board of discharge examiners).
on april 15,913,he was given a concurrent appointment as an officer in hyoefu(headquarters of the middle palace guards).
on march 20,916,he was transferred to hyoefu(headquarters of the middle palace guards).
on september 23,he was allowed to be a tenjobito(a high-ranking courtier allowed into the imperial palace).
on may 20,917,he was transferred to konoefu(the headquarters of the inner palace guards).
on november 17,his court rank was raised to shogoinoge(senior fifth rank,lower grade),and he retained his position as sakone gon no shosho(provisional minor captain of the left division of inner palace guards).
on january 7,921,his court rank was raised to jushiinoge(junior fourth rank,lower grade).
retained his position as sakone gon no shosho.
on january 30,he was concurrently appointed togu no suke(assistant master in the crown prince's quarters for imperial prince yasuakira,who was the prince of emperor daigo).
on february 7,he was accepted to enter the imperial palace.
on march 4,he was appointed kurodo no to(head chamberlain).
retained his position as sakone gon no shosho and togu no suke.
*this was an example of a shosho(provisional minor captain)being appointed kurodo no to.
on january 30,922,he was given a concurrent appointment as an officer in sanuki province.
on june 26,923,he was given a concurrent appointment as an officer in shikibu-sho(the ministry of ceremonial).
retained his position as sakone gon no shosho.
on january 30,925,he was given a concurrent appointment as chugushiki gon no daibu(provisional master of office of the consort's household for of fujiwara no onshi,who was a consort of emperor daigo,and daughter of the kanpaku-chief adviser to the emperor-fujiwara no mototsune).
on january 12,927,he was appointed sangi(councillor).
retained his position as chugu gon no daibu(provisional master of the consort's household)and shikibu gon no taifu(provisional senior assistant minister of the ministry of ceremonial).
on january 7,928,his court rank was raised to jushiinojo(junior fourth rank,upper grade),and he retained his position as sangi,chugu gon no daibu,and shikibu gon no taifu.
on january 29,he was given a concurrent appointment as an officer in echizen province.
on june 9,this concurrent post was changed from shikibu gon no taifu to an officer in shikibu-sho(the ministry of ceremonial).
on january 29,925,he was given a concurrent appointment as an officer in bizen province.
he might have switched to echizen no gon no kami(provisional governor of echizen province),on an unknown date,his position was changed from chugu gon no daibu to chugushiki.
on november 28,931,after chugu fujiwara no onshi became empress dowager,chugushiki was renamed kotaigogushiki.
following that,he was given a concurrent appointment as kotaigogushiki,but empress dowager fujiwara no onshi still called herself chugu.
on january 7,932,his court rank was raised to shoshiinoge(senior fourth rank,lower grade),and he retained his position as sangi,kotaigogu no daibu(master of the empress dowager's household),shikibu no taifu(senior assistant minister of the ministry of ceremonial),and governor of bizen province.
on august 30,his concurrent appointment to shikibu no taifu ended,and he was given a concurrent appointment as an officer in minbusho(ministry of popular affairs).
on october 24,933,his concurrent appointment to governor of bizen province ended,and he was given a concurrent appointment as an officer in iyo province.
on march 28,934,his court rank was raised to shoshiinojo(senior fourth rank,upper grade),and he remained as sangi,kotaigogu no daibu,minbukyo(minister of popular affairs),and the governor of iyo province.
on december 21,his court rank was raised to jusanmi(junior third rank).
retained his position as minbukyo and kotaigogu no daibu.
in 935,his title was changed from kotaigogu no daibu to chubu no daibu.
it was because empress dowager fujiwara no onshi called herself chugu
on 936,he was appointed betto(chief officer)of senkokushisho(history compilation bureau).
(so-called shin kokushi hensan-new history compilation).
on june 23,938,he was transferred to dainagon(chief councilor of state).
retained his position as minbukyo and chugu no daibu.
