bunyu nanjo
bunyu nanjo(july 1,1849-november 9,1927)was a japanese buddhist scholar and religionist who was active during the time from the meiji period to the taisho period.
his name is also written as "南條文雄" in chinese characters.
his azana(adult male's nickname)was sekika(碩果)or shoha(松坡).
he introduced modern western empirical and objective learning system and methodology to premodern traditional buddhist studies for the first time.
he earlier noted the existence of sanskrit texts,the original of buddhist scriptures.
he corrected major chinese versions of buddhist scriptures in comparison with sanskrit texts and introduced the outcome widely to european academic societies,and in that way he played an important role in forming the basis of the modern buddhism studies.
career
he was born in the seiun-ji temple(shinshu sect otani school)in ogaki funamachi,mino province(ogaki city,gifu prefecture).
his childhood name was kakumaru(格丸)or kakujun(格順).
since his childhood,he had been talented in sinology and buddhist scriptures.
he joined an armed priest corps in the ogaki domain in 1866.
he entered takakura gakuryo(seminary)of the higashi hongan-ji temple in kyoto in 1868,and then returned home in the following year.
in 1871,he was adopted to jinko nanjo in the okunen-ji temple who taught at the takakura gakuryo,and changed his last name to nanjo.
he went back to the takakura gakuryo and pursued various studies such as christianity other than buddhism at gohojo(research and educational institute for studies other than buddhism).
in 1876,he went to england to study sanskrit along with his colleague,kenju kasahara.
he learned european modern techniques of the buddhist studies under friedrich max muller of oxford university and was engaged in translating chinese buddhist scriptures into english and correcting chinese buddhist scriptures in comparison with sanskrit scriptures.
the english version of "chinese translation of buddhist tripitaka,the sacred canon of the buddhist in china" published in england in 1883,in particular,is called 'nanjo-catalog' and valued still now by buddhist scholars,sanskrit scholars and orientalists.
the following year,he was awarded the title of master of arts by oxford university and then returned to japan.
he became a part-time lecturer of sanskrit studies at the university of tokyo in 1885 and toured buddhist temple ruins in india and china in 1887.
in 1889,he was awarded the title of doctor(of literature)by ministry of education for the first time in japan.
in 1906,he became a member of the japan academy.
in 1901,when the higashi hongan-ji temple moved shinshu university(present otani university)to sugamo,tokyo from kyoto,he became a professor at the university.
in cooperation with manshi kiyozawa,the first dean of the university,he devoted his energy to establishing modern research and educational institutes for buddhist studies which were closely linked to related studies.
succeeding manshi kiyozawa,he became the second dean of shinshu university in 1903(to 1911)and then,for 18 years in total from 1914 to 1923,he served as the president of the university(changed to shinshu otani university and then otani university)which was moved back to kyoto.
around that time,while making efforts to establish an academic work system in shinshu sect otani school without thought of himself,he explained importance of modern buddhist studies in the societies of buddhist and oriental studies and strove for its education and permeation.
his lectures and writing which were actively done in various places and circles were backed by his profound scholarly acquaintance and faith,and attracted many people.
biographies of nanjo and kasahara were written in the early chapter of "indogaku no akebono" (dawn of indology)written by shinji maejima and published by sekai seiten kyokai.
major works
an unabridged japanese-english dictionary' jointly-edited by yukichika iwasaki and francis brinkley and published by sanseido(1896)
kasahara ibunshu(collection of writings by kenju kasahara)(edited)(1899)
shuyoroku(self-discipline book)(1906)
bokiroku(collection of lectures)(1907)
bussetsu muryoju-kyo(the sutra of the buddha of immeasurable life),japanese translation from sanskrit texts in comparison with five chinese versions,and bussetsu amida-kyo(the sutra on amida buddha),japanese translation from sanskrit texts in comparison with two chinese versions(1908)
seishiroku(collection of essays and papers)(1908)
anjinroku(collection of lectures and essays)(1912)
roppo raikyo(singâlovâda sutta,the discourse preached by the buddha to a young man named singala)in comparison four versions(edited)(1913)
kaikyuroku(memoir)(1927),later republished by heibonsha,toyo bunko
chinese translation of buddhist tripitaka,the sacred canon of the buddhist in china(edited)(1929)
japanese alphabetical index of nanjio's catalogue of the buddhist tripitaka with supplements and corrections(edited by nanjo hakase kinen kankokai[dr.nanjo memorial publication society])(1930)
nanjo sensei iho(calligraphy by bunyu nanjo)(edited by nanjo sensei iho kankokai[professor nanjo calligraphy publication society])(1942)
