tsukushinokimiiwai
tsukushinokimiiwai(?-528?)was from a local ruling family in kyushu region in the end of the tumulus period.
according to "nihonshoki" (chronicles of japan),he started iwai war to prevent the army of yamato sovereignty(the ancient japan sovereignty)from crossing to mimana(the southern area of korean peninsula),and then was kille by mononobe no arakahi.
he is mentioned as 'tsukushi no kuni no miyatsuko iwai' in "nihonshoki," however,as described in the surviving fragment of "chikugo no kuni fudoki" (the records of the culture and geography of chikugo province)and "kojiki" (the records of ancient matters),it is considered that he was actually called tsukushinokimiiwai,which is a common view in the present day.
the following description is mainly based on "nihonshoki."
biography
according to "nihonshoki," during the war against the yamato regime's army tsukushinokimiiwai said to the shogun,omi no kenu, "you and i once lived under the same roof," and it is considered that iwai moved from kyushu region to the yamato province when he was young and served yamoto okimi with kenu and others.
it is also assumed from an iron sword with gold-inlaid inscriptions excavated from the inariyama-kofun tumulus in saitama prefecture that there was a custom in the tumulus period in which young people of local ruling families went to yamato province to serve yamato okimi.
in june 527,the yamato regime sent 60 thousands soldiers lead by omi no kenu to mimana in order to recover south kara/tokukoton that was seized by shiragi(ancient korean kingdom).
according to "nihonshoki," iwai had been plotting a rebellion for a long time but he could not actually do it;however,shiragi heard of the plot and then they bribed iwai and suggested to raise a rebellion against the yamato regime.
iwai took hi province(hizen province/higo province)and toyo province(buzen province/bungo province)in control,prevented the advance of the yamato regime's army,sealed off the sea route between the korean peninsula,and captured choko-sen(ships used especially for paying tribute)crossing from the korean peninsula.
in august of the same year,the emperor keitai appointed mononobe no arakahi as a shogun and sent him to chikushi.
iwai's army fought against arakahi's in november 528 in mii no kori of chikushi province,and after a fierce fighting iwai was captured and killed by arakahi using a blade("nihonshoki").
however,according to the surviving fragment of "chikugo no kuni fudoki," iwai escaped to kamitumike no agata in buzen provicne,and then died in mountains there(the yamato army had lost the track of iwai,though).
his son,tsukushinokimikuzuko,escaped the capital crime by presenting miyake(imperial-controlled territory)of kasuya(kasuya-gun,fukuoka prefecture,as of now)to the yamato regime.
it is said that iwatoyama tumulus,the largest tumulus in the north kyushu,is the tomb of iwai.
it is an unlikely large tomb for a rebellion,and it causes a lot of controversy such as,how come they had enough money to build such a big tomb after the rebellion,or if it was build before his death why such a large tomb was not destroyed after the rebellion,etc.
according to the surviving fragment of "chikugo no kuni fudoki," iwai started building his tomb while he was still alive,however,the truth is not known.
based on the description from "kojiki," some researchers(i.e.chiaki mizutani)insist that iwai,who was expanding his power in the north kyushu,was subdued by the emperor keitai.
