terutaka matsudaira
terutaka matsudaira(october 5,1725-november 10,1781)was the lord of takasaki clan in kozuke province during the edo period.
he served in posts such as jisha-bugyo(magistrate of temples and shrines),the keeper of osaka-jo castle,kyoto shoshidai(the kyoto deputy)and roju(member of shogun's council of seniors).
he was the fourth head of the okochi-matsudaira family in takasaki clan.
he was the oldest son of terunori matsudaira,who was the first lord of takasaki domain.
he held the positions of governor of sado province,governor of inaba province,ukyo no suke(assistant master of the western capital offices);his last official rank was jushiinoge(junior fourth rank,lower grade),and his last positions were jiju(chamberlain)and ukyo no daibu(master of the western capital offices).
his lawful wife was a daughter of nobutoki okochi-matsudaira.
his children included teruchika matsudaira(the oldest son),teruyasu matsudaira(the second son),terunobu matsudaira(the third son),and a daughter(the lawful wife of yasumitsu yanagisawa).
due to the early death of his oldest son teruchika,his second son teruyasu took over as the head of the family when terutaka died.
biography
during his tenure as shoshidai,he arrested shikibu takeuchi(the meiwa incident).
in the same year,he was promoted to roju,and then in 1779,due to the death of takechika matsudaira he became roju shuza(the head of the roju)and was also appointed kattegakari(director of finance).
in 1781,terutaka took charge of trying to impose taxes on special local items in joshu(kozuke province)such as silk fabric and raw silk,announcing it in august.
in response,peasants in west joshu and other areas revolted and did uchikowashi(an act where people destroyed residences of privileged merchants or officials who were involved in misgovernment)against it;they even took the unprecedented step of attacking takasaki-jo castle where he resided.
although the bakufu(japanese feudal government headed by a shogun)repealed the taxes,terutaka suffered from depression after this incident and it was only because his attempt to resign was turned down by shogun ieharu tokugawa that he remained a roju until his death.
after his time,the convention that roju shuza served also as kattegakari faded away.
official rank and title
february 6,1746:ranked jugoinoge(junior fifth rank,lower grade)and appointed as sado no kami(governor of sado province).
december 16,1747:inaba no kami(governor of inaba province).
march 27,1749:took over as the head of the family and became the lord of takasaki domain.
january 25,1750:sojaban(an official in charge of the ceremonies).
february 10,1751:served as an additional post as jisha-bugyo.
changed to ukyo no suke.
may 20,1752:appointed keeper of osaka-jo castle.
ranked jushiinoge and appointed to ukyo no daibu.
june 4,1756:changed to kyoto shoshidai.
became jiju.
august 27,1758:(meiwa incident),november 18:became roju.
september 1779:became roju shuza and kattegakari.
january 21,1780:increased crop yields by 10,000 koku(1803.9 cubic meters).
82,000 koku crop yields in total(14791.98 cubic meters).
august 1781:uprisings occurred in his domain of takasaki and he passed away while he was still in service on november 10,1781.
died at the age of 57.
