shigeyuki kuze
shigeyuki kuze(1659-august 1,1720)was a daimyo(feudal lord)in the edo period,and a cabinet minister of the tokugawa shogunate.
he had the official rank of shoshiinoge(senior fourth rank,lower grade).
his official title was sanuki no kami(the governor of sanuki province)at first,and later yamato no kami(the governor of yamato province).
he was the lord of sekiyado domain in the shimousa province.
he was the second generation in the kuze family to assume the lord of sekiyado domain in the shimousa province.
he was the third son of the first lord of the domain hiroyuki kuze.
his lawful wife was a daughter of toshifusa doi.
his children were teruyuki kuze(fourth son),hirotoshi kuze(久世広寿),hiroju kuze(久世広躊)(fifth son),hirohan kuze(久世広般)(ninth son),a daughter(lawful wife of yasukazu matsudaira),and another daughter(lawful wife of fusayoshi ishikawa).
shigeyuki had transferred from one domain to another as the lord in his generation,starting at the sekiyado domain,then transferred to the niwase domain in the bicchu province,then to the tanba-kameyama domain in the tanba province,then to the mikawa-yoshida domain in the mikawa province,and in 1706,returned to the sekiyado domain.
in the bakufu(shogunate government),he was promoted to the jisha-bugyo(magistrate of temples and shrines)at the age of 45 at first,then promoted to wakadoshiyori(a managerial position in edo bakufu),and from 1713 to 1720,assumed the position of roju(member of shogun's council of elders).
he was known as an admirer of the teachings of hakuseki arai.
he indirectly supported the shotoku no chi(hakuseki arai's policy of civilian government)which had few supporters in the cabinet,and assumed the position responsible for shotoku gold and silver coins mintage.
after the dead of shigeyuki,his fourth son teruyuki kuze succeeded him as the head of the family.
career
in 1659,he was born.
in 1679,he assumed the position of the lord of the sekiyado domain.
in 1683,he transferred to the niwase domain.
in 1686,he transferred to the tanba-kameyama domain.
in 1697,he transferred to the mikawa-yoshida domain.
in 1704,he was appointed to the jisha-bugyo.
in 1705,he was appointed to the wakadoshiyori.
he returned to the sekiyado domain.
in 1713,he was appointed to the roju.
in 1720,he died in office.
age at death:61.
his graveyard is in the maruyamahonmyo-ji temple(toshima ward).
