motozane konoe
motozane konoe(1143-august 30,1166)was a noble in the late heian period.
his father was fujiwara no tadamichi.
his mother was saneko,a daughter of minamoto no kunizane.
his children were motomichi konoe and tadayoshi awataguchi.
his wives included a daughter of fujiwara no tadataka and taira no seishi,a daughter of taira no kiyomori.
in 1150,he was awarded the rank of shogoinoge(senior fifth rank,lower grade)and appointed as sakone no shosho(minor captain of the left palace guards)when he was eight.
patronage by his father and emperor goshirakawa,he continued to be promoted thereafter until he rose to the rank of shonii(senior second rank)and was appointed as udaijin(minister of the right)in 1157 after serving as gon no chunagon(provisional middle councilor)and gon no dainagon(provisional major councilor).
in august of the following year,he was promoted to the kampaku(chief adviser to the emperor)of emperor nijo,and toshi choja(chieftain of the fujiwara family)as young as at the age of sixteen.
in 1160,he was designated as sadaijin(minister of the left),and in 1165,he rose to the sessho(regent)of emperor rokujo.
on august 30,1166,however,he died of illness at the young age of twenty four.
he was posthumously awarded the post of dajodaijin(prime minister)and the rank of shoichii(senior first rank).
additionally,morozane started the konoe family,which later became one of gosekke(literally, "the five sekke," meaning five regent families).
he was a fair-skinned,thin,and good-looking man.
his career
dates used here are based on the lunar calendar.
on january 21,1151,motozane had a ceremony of attaining manhood and was awarded the rank of shogoinoge.
he was appointed as sakone no shosho.
he was permitted shoden(access to the throne)and to wear kinjiki(forbidden colors).
on february 1,1151,he rose to the rank of jushiinoge(junior fourth rank,lower grade)and retained his position as sakone no shosho.
in january of the same year(1151)(the date is not known)after the era had been changed to nimpei,he was designated as omi no suke(assistant provincial governor of omi)as well.
on february 26,1151,he rose to shoshiinoge(senior fourth rank,lower grade)and retained his position as sakone no shosho and omi no suke.
on april 21,1152,he rose to jusanmi(junior third rank)and retained his position as sakone no shosho.
on october 15,he was transferred to the office of sakonoe no chujo(middle captain of the left palace guards).
on february 9,1153,he rose to shosanmi(senior third rank)and retained his position as sakonoe no chujo.
on february 23,he was appointed as harima gonno kami(senior provincial governor of harima)as well.
on march 19,1154,he was transferred to the office of gon no chunagon and appointed as saemon no kami(captain of the left gate guards).
on october 6,1156,he was transferred to the office of gon no dainagon and retained his position as saemon no kami.
on october 10,he rose to junii(junior second rank)and retained his position as gon no dainagon and saemon no kami.
on december 19,he was proclaimed as tachibanashi choja(the chieftain of the tachibana family)by the emperor(this is an example where a fujiwara family member was proclaimed as the head of the tachibana family).
on march 13,1157,he rose to the rank of shonii and retained his position as gon no dainagon and saemon no kami.
on october 1,he was transferred to the office of udaijin.
on january 26,1158,he was designated as togufu(educational adviser to imperial prince)of imperial prince morihito(later emperor nijo)as well.
on september 12,1158,he was proclaimed as kampaku(chief advisor to the emperor)and fujiwarashi choja(chieftain of the fujiwara family)and retained his position as udaijin.
in the imperial court,he was seated in the third place,following fujiwara no munesuke,who had been ranked juichii(junior first rank)and appointed as dajodaijin,and fujiwara no koremichi,who had been ranked shonii and designated as sadaijin(minister of the left).
motozane had not been seated in the first place.
on september 19,1160,he was transferred to the office of sadaijin and retained his position as kampaku and fujiwarashi choja.
in the imperial court,he was seated in the second place,following fujiwara no koremichi,who had been ranked shonii and appointed as dajodaijin.
on november 29,1164,he resigned from the office of sadaijin.
on march 23,1165,he came to be seated in the first place after fujiwara no koremichi,who had been awarded the rank of shonii and appointed as dajodaijin,had demised.
on august 10,he left the post of kampaku,and was proclaimed as sessyo by the emperor.
on august 30,1166,he passed away at the age of 24.
on september 15,he was posthumously awarded the rank of shoichii and the post of dajodaijin.
