fujiwara no kanehira
fujiwara no kanehira
fujiwara no kanehira in the family line of fujiwara no yoshifusa of the northern house of the fujiwara clan(a son of fujiwara no mototsune)
fujiwara no kanehira in the family line of the ononomiya school of the northern house of the fujiwara clan(a son of fujiwara no tsunesue)
see the article on kanehira takatsukasa for the fujiwara no kanehira who was the first family head of the takatsukasa family,one of the five sekke(family of a regent or a chief advisor to the emperor)of the northern house of the fujiwara clan.
fujiwara no kanehira(a son of fujiwara no mototsune)
fujiwara no kanehira(875-september 3,935)was a government official and musician of ancient japanese court music in the mid heian period.
he was the third son of sessho daijo-daijin(regent and grand minister)fujiwara no mototsune.
his mother was a daughter of shikibukyo(director-general of the ministry of ceremonial)imperial prince tadayoshi.
his paternal half brothers and sisters included tokihira,nakahira,tadahira,yoshiko,and onshi.
he is said to have been a master of biwa(japanese lute)(from "sonpi bunmyaku," a text compiled in the fourteenth century that records the lineages of the aristocracy).
without any court rank beforehand,he was suddenly awarded the jugoinojo(junior fifth rank,upper grade)at the age of 21 on september 17,895.
he died at the age of 61 on september 3,935.
his last official rank was the jusanmi(junior third rank),kunaikyo(minister of the sovereign's household).
fujiwara no kanehira(a son of fujiwara no tsunesue)
fujiwara no kanehira(year of birth and death unknown)was a government official in the late heian period.
he was in the family line of the ononomiya school(saneyori school)of the northern house of the fujiwara clan.
his father was fujiwara no tsunesue,chunagon(vice-councilor of state).
his mother was a daughter of chunagon fujiwara no sadayori.
she was a waka(traditional japanese poetry)poet whose waka were collected in the chokusen wakashu(anthologies of waka compiled by imperial order)such as "goshui wakashu" (later collection of gleanings of japanese poetry), "senzai wakashu" (collection of japanese poems of a thousand years),and "shin chokusen wakashu" (new imperial anthology of japanese poetry)in the names of 'daughter of fujiwara no sadayori' and 'mother of fujiwara no kanehira.'
she first became fujiwara no nobunaga's mistress,but later got separated from him and married fujiwara no tsunesue,giving birth to kanehira.
kanehira assumed positions such as izumo no kami(governor of izumo province)and awaji no kami(governor of awaji province),and was advanced to ukone no shosho(minor captain of the right division of inner palace guards)of the jushiinojo(junior fourth rank,upper grade).
