chikayoshi hori
chikayoshi hori(1580-july 5,1637)was a daimyo(japanese feudal lord)who lived in the azuchi-momoyama period and the edo period.
he was the first generation of the hori clan in the shinano-iida domain.
he was the second son of hidemasa hori and the younger brother of hideharu hori.
his mother was the daughter of yoshishige kitajima.
his pseudonym was kichichiyo,and then magotaro;he changed his given name from hidenari,hideie,and then to chikayoshi.
his lawful wife was the daughter of nagamasa asano.
his children included chikamasa hori(the oldest son),chikatomo hori(the second son),chikayasu hori(the third son),and a daughter(sukeyoshi hino's wife).
he served for hideyoshi toyotomi with his father hidemasa and his older brother hideharu.
his first battle to join was the siege of odawara at the age of 11,and ruled the land of 20,000 koku in echizen province after his father's death.
he was awarded the rank of jugoinoge(junior fifth rank,lower grade)in 1591 and was appointed as mimasaka no kami(governor of mimasaka province),and then was given by hideyoshi the surname of hashiba and a given name of hideie.
he was transferred to echigo province with hideharu and ruled the land of 40,000 koku of the zao-do domain,of which 10,000 koku was distributed to his chief retainer shigekatsu kondo.
after hideyoshi died,he received 'the sword made by sukezane' as an article left by the deceased.
in the battle of sekigahara in 1600,he joined in the eastern squad with his older brother.
despite being in home,kagekatsu uesugi plotted a rebellion,having saito,kakizaki,maruta,and so on serve as captains to lead forces of uprising,and holed themselves up in shitada village,the boundary of aizu;chikayoshi himself,accompanied by soldiers,then fought against them,thereby acquiring a severed head or killing the offender' (according to "kanei shoka keizuden" [the genealogies of the houses of the kanei era]),by which achievements,he was awarded a citation by ieyasu and hidetada.
the citation included 'to:hashiba mimasaka no kami,' which shows that he still called himself hashiba on this occasion.
after the war,he got shoryo ando(act of providing authorization for land ownership and guaranteeing feudal tenure)from ieyasu tokugawa.
however,in 1602 he fell out with naomasa hori,who was from the same family,resulting in conflict,and therefore he pretended to be ill and retired to the residence of his deceased father located in fushimi,kyoto.
on this occasion,he transferred the head of the family to his heir tsuruchiyo hori.
he entered kishu(the present wakayama prefecture)via kyoto and osaka with his hereditary vassals,stopped by his wife's birthplace,the asano family,and consulted yoshinaga asano for his action.
he was received in audience by ieyasu in sunpu and became a retainer for masazumi honda by his order.
after serving for four years,he was given a land of 12,000 koku of maoka domain in shimotsuke province in 1611 and received in audience by hidetada in edo.
he joined in osaka no eki(the siege of osaka)under toshikatsu doi.
around this time,he changed from the hashiba clan back to the hori clan,and he also changed his given name from hideie to chikayoshi.
in 1618,he obtained additional 5,000 koku in mino province,and in 1627,he was awarded karasuyama-jo castle in shimotsuke province and ruled the land of 25,000 koku of the karasuyama domain.
