fujiwara no shigezane
fujiwara no shigezane(year of birth unknown-901)was a military officer in the early heian period.
he came from the fujiwara no matanari line of the sourthen house of the fujiwara clan.
his father was fujiwara no okiyo,jushiinoge(junior fourth rank,lower grade)hyoefu(headquarters of the middle palace guards)governor of mutsu province.
his mother was a daughter of onakatomi no saneka.
jugoinoge(junior fifth rank,lower grade)takako fuse was one of his wives.
in april to may 878,governor of dewa province fujiwara no okiyo(shigezane's father)reported to the throne that akita-jo castle(its ruins are located at terauchi,akita city,akita prefecture)was burnt down by emishi(gangyo war).
upon receiving the report,the imperial court appointed fujiwara no yasunori to provisional governor of dewa province and got him to suppress it.
at the same time,the imperial court dispatched shoshichiinoge(senior seventh rank,lower grade)umaryo(bureau of horses)fujiwara no shigezane in august of the same year,and ordered him to appease prisoners by providing fudokoku(staple for emergency)and to subdue emishi taking advantage of the force of fukae no mikado and other prisoners.
in september of the same year,shigezane,who was accompanied by none,went to see emishi along with dewa go no jo(the third officer of provincial government of dewa)funya no arifusa and received the rebel's offer of surrender.
in january 879,he was dispatched to dewa province in order to console emishi who surrendered without resistance.
he died in 901 when he was jushiinoge(junior fourth rank,lower grade)governor of mutsu province konoefu(headquarters of the inner palace guards).
ruishi(a poem of condolence)written by sugawara no michizane was compiled in "kanke goshu"(later collection of the sugawara family).
father:fujiwara no okiyo
mother:a daughter of onakatomi no saneka
wife:takako fuse
son:fujiwara no朝鑑
son:fujiwara no令名
son:fujiwara no当峯
son:fujiwara no善文
son:fujiwara no好風
wife:kamitsukenu clan
son:fujiwara no朝範
