fujiwara no ietada
fujiwara no ietada(1062-june 22,1136)was a court noble who lived in the late heian period.
he was the progenitor of the kazanin family,and also called kazanin sadaijin(minister of the left).
his father was fujiwara no morozane.
his mother was a daughter of minamoto no yorikuni.
he had children including fujiwara no tadamune.
after the sudden death of fujiwara no moromichi,his brother from a different mother,he attempted to secure the position of regent,but in vain.
the emperor horikawa trusted ietada very much.
it is recorded in "chuyuki" (diary written by fujiwara no munetada)and "imakagami" (the mirror of the present)that the emperor strongly intended to make ietada assume the post of ukone no daisho(major captain of the right division of inner palace guards).
recently,it is said that the enlarged part of "imakagami" was written by ietada.
career
in 1072,he was conferred jugoinoge(junior fifth rank,lower grade).
in 1074,he was appointed to a jiju(chamberlain).
in 1075,he was appointed to the ukone no shosho(minor captain of the right division of inner palace guards).
in 1076,he was conferred jugoinojo(junior fifth rank,upper grade),and appointed to the omi no suke(assistant governor of omi province).
in december in 1076,he was conferred shogoinoge(senior fifth rank,lower grade).
in 1077,he was conferred jushiinoge(junior fourth rank,lower grade),and appointed to sakone no chujo(middle captain of the left division of inner palace guards).
in 1078,he was conferred jushiinojo(junior fourth rank,upper grade).
in 1080,he was conferred jusanmi(junior third rank).
in 1081,he was conferred shosanmi(senior third rank),and concurrently appointed to the sanuki gon no kami(the governor of sanuki province).
in 1082,he was promoted to sangi(councillor).
in 1083,he was appointed to the gon chunagon(a provisional vice-councilor of state).
in 1084,he was appointed to the chugu gon no daibu(provisional master of the consort's household),and conferred junii(junior second rank).
in 1086,he was concurrently appointed to the saemon no kami(captain of the left division of outer palace guards).
in 1088,he was conferred shonii(senior second rank).
in 1091,he was appointed to the gon dainagon(provisional major counselor).
in 1103,he was concurrently appointed to the udaisho(major captain of the right division of inner palace guards).
in 1107,he was concurrently appointed to the kogogu daibu(master of the empress's household).
in 1115,he was appointed to the dainagon(chief councilor of state).
in 1121,he was concurrently appointed to the sadaisho(major captain of the left division of inner palace guards).
in 1122,he was appointed to the udaijin(minister of the right).
in 1131,he was conferred juichii(junior first rank)and appointed to the sadaijin(minister of the left).
