motoie kujo
motoie kujo(1203-august 7,1280)was a court poet,who lived during the mid kamakura period.
his father was yoshitsune kujo
his mother was junii(junior second rank)fujiwara no toshiko,the daughter of fujiwara no motofusa.
he used the pseudonym gachirin(a perfectly round circle meant to represent the full moon,and the buddha's knowledge and virtue which are considered perfect and all-encompassing),and commonly called kujo former minister of the center.
his childhood name was tsurudono.
he was born as the third son of yoshitsune kujo.
in 1217,he was ranked jusanmi(junior third rank),and after holding the position of gon chunagon(a provisional vice-councilor of state)and dainagon(chief councilor of state),on january 19,1238,at the age of 35,he was appointed the minister of the center.
the next year,he was resigned.
after the jokyu war,he played an active role in the waka poetry world,and while keeping in touch with retired emperor gotoba,who was in the exile in oki province,he took part in "ento-utaawase" (literally,waka poetry contest in a remote island),an anthology of poems compiled by retired emperor gotoba),and others.
after the death of fujiwara no teika,motoie had conflicted with teika's son fujiwara no tameie and was selected as one of the compilers of the waka collection "shoku kokin wakashu" (anthology of imperially commissioned poetry in the kamakura period)in 1262.
he also participated in 'kocho hyakka" (best 100 poems in the kocho era)and 'koan hyakka" (best 100 poems in the koan era),and he compiled two waka collection books, 'wakan meisho shikaawase' (a anthology of chinese and japanese classics)and 'unyo wakashu.'
his poetic style was luxuriant;moreover,he had a taste of classicism,and his posture was close to that of mitsutoshi hamura(opposite to that of tameie).
among the compilations that he undertook,there are following anthologies: "shin jidaifudo utaawase" (new poetry contest over different times), "shin sanjuroku-nin sen" (new anthology of poems of thirty-six master poets)and "korai utaawase" (poetry contest of poems in ancient times)(scattered and lost).
he also published his personal collection of poetries;however,it was also scattered and lost.
