saeki no otoko
saeki no otoko(years of birth and death unknown)was a japanese who lived in asuka period.
the reading of the name in old japanese syllabary is 'saheki no wotoko.'
his kabane(hereditary title)was muraji,and sukune later.
in jinshin war of 672,he was dispatched to tsukushi province for prince otomo(later emperor kobun)but failed his duty.
he later became oyamato no kami(a director general of japan)of jugoinojo(junior fifth rank,upper grade).
in the end of june,672 the year of mizunoe-saru(one of the oriental zodiac),omi no miya imperial court which knew prince oama(emperor tenmu)had raised an army dispatched the envoys to many parts of the country and raised the army for its suppression.
saeki no muraji no otoko was dispatched to prince kurikuma,tsukushi no omikotomochi no tsukasa(provincial governor-general)on this occasion.
while emperor kobun commanded dispatch of troops,the emperor suspected that saeki would also betray because prince kurikuma used to obey prince oama before.
the direction saeki no otoko had received was 'kill him if he is disobedient.'
prince kurikuma who received the order to dispatch troops rejected it.
prince kurikuma explained that the duty in tsukushi province was for the provision against outside and the nation which had an accident during the defense's absence would decline.
prince kumakuri's two children,prince mino(prince minu)and prince takeie were equipped with swords and stood beside him.
saeki no otoko tried to step forward with his sword in his hand,but gave up and returned since he thought to be killed instead.
there is no record of his activities after his return.
it seems that he was forgiven after the war.
saeki no muraji was given the kabane of sukune(third highest of the eight hereditary title)on january 15,685.
saeki no sukune no otoko,the junior fifth rank lower grade,was assigned to oyamato no kami(a director general of japan)on april 12,708.
on october 13,709,he was raised from jugoinoge(junior fifth rank,lower grade)to jugoinojo.
he was also oyamato no kami then.
