fujiwara no uona
fujiwara no uona(july 25,721 to august 31,783)was a high court noble in the nara period.
he belonged to the northern house of the fujiwara clan and was the fifth son of fujiwara no fusasaki.
he was the senior second court rank and minister of the left.
he took the second name kawabe minister.
biography
when emperor shotoku died,uona quickly started showing his ability after usano,who was the sangi(councilor)at the time,enthroned emperor konin with fujiwara no nagate,fujiwara no yoshitsugu as well as fujiwara no momokawa and expelled dokyo.
uona gained tremendous trust from emperor konin and was granted the official rank called "loyal retainer."
however,soon after emperor konin died,his post of minister of the left was dismissed and he was relegated to dazai-fu(local government office in kyushu region).
he was considered to be involved in hikami no kawatsugu's war,and his sons were also relegated at the same time.
while he was heading for dazai-fu,he became sick in toshima district in settsu province and was granted the pardon for entering the capital.
however,he died not long after that(august 31,783).
after his death,emperor kammu recovered his honor.
it is said that one of the former hattori-tenjingu shrines,which were enshrined in toyonaka city,osaka prefecture,was a grave of uona,and it is now still remaining in the precincts.
in the same shrine,the legend of sugawara no michizane,who was similarly relegated to dazai-fu,about 100 years after uona's death,was handed down.
career
748:junior fifth lower court rank
757:junior fifth upper court rank
761:junior fourth lower court rank,kunaisho(ministry of the sovereign's household)
766:junior third court rank
768:sangi(councilor)and ministry of finance
770:senior third court rank
771:chief councilor of state
778:retainer,loyal retainer
779:minister of the palace
781:senior second court rank minister of the left and dazai-fu(local government office in kyushu region)
in june,ad 782 year:he was considered to be involved in hikami no kawatsugu's war,and his post of minister of the left was dismissed.
on august 31,ad 783,he died.
descendants
after entering the heian period,uona's descendants became middle rank of nobles who held local government positions,and there was no one who was listed among the high court nobles for a long time.
however,fujiwara no akisue,who was sueshige's descendant,and his sons became the retired emperor's courtiers in the administration governed by the retired emperor,and rapidly extended their influences,and came to occupy high court noble's position once again.
the descendants of akisue were also called zenshoji-ryu,and produced a lot of the tosho family(the hereditary lineage of court nobles occupying relatively high ranks)including the main branch shijo family
among the descendants of washitori,there were powerful senior vassals such as the adachi clan who was succeeded from akitajo no suke and the date clan who was known to be the warring lords during the kamakura period.
moreover,fujiwara no hidesato,who had repressed the johei and tengyo war,claimed himself to be a descendant of fujiwara no fujinari.
