hozumi no momotari
hozumi no momotari(year of birth unknown-june 29,672)is japanese of asuka period.
the reading of the name in old japanese syllabary is the same with 'hozumi no momotari.'
his kabane(hereditary title)is omi.
in jinshin war of 672,he was killed by an enemy soldier when he was gathering soldiers in the city in yamato for prince otomo(later emperor kobun).
in june of the same year,the imperial court of omi no miya which knew prince oama(later emperor tenmu)raised an army dispatched the envoys to many places and raised an army for its suppression.
the envoys to the city in yamato were hozumi no momotari and his younger brothers,hozumi no ioe and mononobe no himuka on this occasion.
in this case,yamato means yamato province and the city in yamato means the former capital in asuka.
there was prince takasaka as rusutsukasa(a guard of the city)and he engaged in the organization of the army together.
the camp was under a zelkova tree in the west of asuka-dera temple.
but then,otomo no fukei got the dozens of comrades and forwarded the preparation of the war for prince oama in yamato.
fukei talked with another rusutsukasa,sakanoue no kumake,to make a plan that fukei would approach from outside under the false name of prince takechi,and then kumake would betray a secret.
prince takechi was organizing the army for prince oama in mino province at that time.
despite that,fukei tried to let the false information spread that prince takechi had already appeared in yamato.
on june 29,fukei and the others went into the camp under the zelkova tree in the west of asuka-dera temple and took over the command of the army after having got a betrayal.
hozumi no momotari was letting his soldiers move weapons to omi province at hyogo(a shed of weapon)in a small newly cultivated land at that time.
fukei lied to momotari that it was the order from prince takechi that momotari was summoned.
momotari riding a horse approached slowly and came under a zelkova tree in the west of asuka-dera temple.
he was said 'get off the horse' by someone but his movement of getting off was slow.
dragged down with his collar grabbed,he was shot by an arrow and killed with a sword.
thus the army of the city in yamato went over to the prince oama side.
