kinakira imadegawa
kinakira imadegawa(april 30,1696-march 21,1731)was kugyo(a court noble)in the middle of the edo period.
he served two emperors,the emperor higashiyama(the 113th)and the emperor nakamikado(the 114th),and he rose to the official rank of junii(junior second rank)gon dainagon(a provisional chief councilor of state).
his father was udaijin(the minister of the right),koresue imadegawa.
his mother was unknown.
kinyoshi imadegawa was his brother who was sakone no chujo(middle captain of the left division of inner palace guards)and later returned his title and became an ordinary person.
his wife was the princess of imperial prince fushiminomiya kuninaga.
sanaoki imadegawa was his son,but he died young.
his adopted son was gon dainagon,nobusue imadegawa(son of munesue saionji).
his daughters included tokuko(a wife of munenobu tokugawa,the lord of the kishu domain)and a wife of nobusue imadegawa.
the original name was kiyosue.
in 1705,the peerage was conferred on him.
in 1706,his brother,kinyoshi,returned the official rank and government post,therefore,instead of his brother,he succeeded the family name.
he took various positions such as jiju(imperial household agency staff),sakonoe no shosho(minor captain of the left division of inner palace guards)and sakonoe no chujo(middle captain of the left division of inner palace guards),and in 1712,he rose to the official rank of jusanmi(junior third rank)to rank with kugyo.
after that,he took several positions such as toka no sechie geben(an official who organized and supervised formal ceremonies at the imperial court)and gon chunagon(a provisional vice-councilor of the state)and in 1723,he was appointed to be gon dainagon as well as naikyobo no betto(a superintendent of naikyobo where officials gave music and dance training to women).
form 1727 to 1730,he served as jingutenso(shrine messenger to the emperor).
while serving as jingutenso,in 1729,he was appointed to be togu daifu(an official who dealt with the imperial court affairs)for imperial prince teruhito(the emperor sakuramachi).
in 1731,he got sick and resigned from all positions.
