kiyonao komatsu
kiyonao komatsu(oct.26,1866 to march 5,1918)was a peer who lived between the meiji and taisho periods.
his father was kiyokado komatsu,a chief retainer of satsuma domain,and his mother was koto miki,a mistress of kiyokado.
his childhood name was yasuchiyo.
his wife was fukuko komatsu,a daughter of hisataka shimazu(toyosu family),a former chief retainer of satsuma domain.
biography
he was born the first son to his father tatewaki kiyokado and koto,a geigi(a woman who gives fun with a song,a dance or a music instrument at a feast)in kyoto.
because kiyokado passed away in august,1870,he was brought up by chika komatsu,a legal wife of kiyokado,in kagoshima.
however,kiyotsugu komatsu(a nephew of chika,and a real younger brother of hisanari machida)had already been adopted by the komatsu family,and kiyotsugu inherited the family estate on march 10,1870,but on september 25,1872,kiyonao newly inherited the family estate.
in june 1896,he went into retirement,and in march 1918,he passed away at the age of 52.
his grave is located in a family plot of the nejime and komatsu families in hiyoshi branch of hioki city hall in kagoshima prefecture(former hiyoshi town public office).
descendants
his eldest son,tatewaki,was bestowed a title of count in consideration of his services in the restoration,and served as a member of the house of peers(japan),but in march 1905,he passed away.
after that,his second son shigeharu komatsu succeeded to the title of count,and took a lively part in the economic world,serving as the president of keikoku bank.
he adopted the seventh son of tsugumichi saigo,and jushi komatsu succeeded to the family estate.
anecdote
in 1922,railways minister gave shigeharu komatsu permission to vend at shinagawa station.
this is because shigeharu's grandfather,tatewaki,sent a petition about laying a railroad in 1867 and his achievement was considered.
the komatsu family made tokiwaken inc.and began to sell foods and others at shinagawa station on japan national railways,which lasts until today.
his birth date is considered october 26,1866,but some historical materials such as 'nejime monjo' tell that it is october 7,1865.
