kazuo hatoyama
kazuo hatoyama(may 6,1856,to october 3,1911)was a samurai,a feudal retainer of mimasaka-katsuyama domain,mimasaka province,in the late edo period,and a statesman and an advocate(lawyer)after meiji restoration.
he was a doctor of law,with a court rank of the 3rd class of shoshii(senior fourth rank).
he was a man of great merit who successively took the positions of vice minister of foreign affairs and chairman of the house of representatives,and,in the area of education,made a huge contribution to the foundation of senshu school(present day senshu university).
he also took such positions as the president of tokyo senmon gakko(present day waseda university).
his eldest son was ichiro hatoyama(statesman,prime minister)and his second son was hideo hatoyama(scholar of law).
personal profile
on may 6,1856,he was born in toranomon,edo,musashi province(present day minato-ku,tokyo(tokyo)),as the fourth son of hirofusa hatoyama,a feudal retainer of mimasaka-katsuyama domain mimasaka province(present day maniwa city,okayama prefecture),who was in charge of edo rusuiyaku(a person representing the lord during his absence from edo).
in 1875,he graduated from kaisei shool(present day the university of tokyo).
chosen as the first exchange student,he went to the united states to study.
he obtained a bachelor of law from columbia university.
then he obtained a doctor of law from yale university(1880).
in 1880,after returning to japan,he played a huge role in the foundation of senshu school(senshu university),as a person of great merit.
also he successively took such positions as an advocate and a lecturer at the tokyo imperial university.
in november,1881,he married haruko taga,the daughter of tsutomu watanabe,a former feudal retainer of shinshu-matsumoto domain.
in february,1882,he was elected to be a member of tokyo prefecture assembly.
in january,1883,his eldest son,ichiro,was born.
in february,1884,his second son,hideo,was born.
in april,1885,he joined the ministry of foreign affairs.
he took the positions of the secretary of foreign affairs,the director general of enforcement office,and a professor at the tokyo imperial university.
in july,1890:he became the president of tokyo senmon gakko(present day waseda university).
in fall,1890,he moved his residence to otowa-machi,koishikawa ward(present day otowa,bunkyo ward,tokyo)
in march,1894,he was elected to be a member of the house of representatives.
in december,1896,he became the chairperson for the house of representatives.
in march,1897,he exercised his casting vote when two of the bills were a tie vote at a plenary session of the house of representatives(both of them were rejected).
hatoyama is the only person that used the casting vote of the chairperson twice in the diet.
in september,1898,he became vice minister of foreign affairs.
in september,1902,tokyo senmon gakko became waseda university,and he became the president of waseda university.
in november,1908,he was elected to be a member of tokyo city assemply.
due to the system those days,he doubled as a member of the house of representatives.
in may,1910,he became the chairperson of tokyo bar association.
on october 3,1911,around seven thirty in the morning,he died.
at the age of 55.
his families and relatives
father:hirofusa hatoyama(a feudal retainer of mimasaka-katsuyama domain)
wife:haruko(daughter of tsutomu watanabe,a feudal retainer of shinshu-matsumoto domain)
eldest son:ichiro hatoyama(a statesman,prime minister)
second son:hideo hatoyama(a scholar of law)
grandson:iichiro hatoyama(a bureaucrat,statesman)
great-grandchild:yukio hatoyama(a statesman),kunio hatoyama(a statesman)
