michimi nakanoin
michimi nakanoin(june 21,1668-january 1,1740)was a kugyo(court noble)and kajin(waka poet)in the middle of the edo period.
he was a head of the nakanoin family(kakaku[family status]was daijinke[the third highest status for court nobles]and the murakami-genji clan).
brief personal history
in 1668,he was born as the first son of michishige nakanoin(dainagon[major counselor],later,naidaijin[minister of the interior]).
his childhood name was益丸.
the next year,he was conferred a peerage,then in 1673,he was promoted to jugoinojo(junior fifth rank,upper grade).
in 1680,he was celebrated his coming of age and promoted to jushiinoge(junior fourth rank,lower grade).
after that,he served as konoefu(the headquaters of the inner palace guards)and became sangi(councilor)in 1688.
in 1672,he became chunagon(middle counselor).
the next year,he was promoted to shosanmi(senior third rank)and became toka geben(a kugyo[the top court officials]who supervised the event of toka[sing and dance]held at imperial court).
in 1700,by emperor higashiyama's imperial decree,he became a chief officer serving to imperial prince沢宮寛敦(沢宮性応)'s family,the tenth son of emperor reigen.
he took over kagaku(uta poem study)from his father,michishige,and had influence in the poetry circle reigenin with his father.
in 1715,he collected waka(japanese poetry)and dedicated them to sone-tenmangu shrine in innami district,harima province(current takasago city),which enshrines sugawara no michizane.
he had disciples of waka poetry such as mitsuhide karasumaru.
and also,he learned sinology from banzan kumazawa with his father(his father michishige was referred to as a tosho big four of banzan's disciples).
in addition,he successively held various posts such as kuyo denso of seiryo-ji temple and jingutenso(shrine messenger to the emperor)of ise jingu shrine.
in 1718 he was appointed as buke tenso,and in 1726 he was appointed as naidaijin(minister of the center)and the year after next,he was promoted to juichii(junior first rank)
in 1738,although he was exceptionally appointed as udaijin(minister of the right),he resigned it.
the most highest rank in daijinke was the post of naidaijin(minister of the center),and in the early modern times,there were only saneeda sanjonishi and michimi from daijinke who were appointed as udaijin(minister of the right).
next year,when yoshimune tokugawa,seii taishogun(literally, "great general who subdues the barbarians")choose masters of waka(japanese poetry)form kugeshu(court nobles)and called on them to present a waka(poem)which written about famous places,with intent to encourage kuge's family business,michimi was recommended by kanpaku(chief adviser to the emperor)kaneka ichijo and presented waka.
in february of this year,he died.
he died at the age of 72.
his posthumous name was喜光院.
family
his father was michishige nakanoin(naidaijin).
her mother was a daughter of the lord of sekishuku,shimousa province domain,masanobu ogasawara.
sadamoto nomiya and michinatsu kuze were his real younger brothers.
his lawful wife was a daughter of masaaki asukai.
his son中院通藤(1710-1715)died an early age of 6.
therefore,he adopted his brother michinatsu kuze's son(michieda nakanoin).
he had daughters,the lawful wife of清閑寺治房(dainagon),the lawful wife of munenori nabeshima(the lord of the saga domain of hizen province)and the lawful wife of shigemoto mizoguchi(the lord of echigo shibata domain).
career of job grade
