michitsune koga
michitsune koga(january 9,1842-january 10,1925)was a kugyo(top court official)from kyoto.
he was a soldier,politician,and bureaucrat and was awarded the rank of marquis.
he was also known to have a lot of hobbies,being proficient in waka(traditional japanese poetry),calligraphy,yokyoku(noh songs),writing lyrics,etc.
career
he was the eldest son of naidaijin(minister of the center),takemichi koga.
his mother was matsushima,daughter of genchu goto.
1848-jugoinoge(junior fifth rank,lower grade).
1849-jugoinojo(junior fifth rank,upper grade).
1850-shogoinoge(senior fifth rank,lower grade).
1851-jushiinoge(junior forth rank,lower grade).
1852-jushiinojo(junior fourth rank,upper grade),jiju(a chamberlain).
1853-shoshiinoge(senior fourth rank,lower grade).
1854-genpuku(coming-of-age ceremony).
sa-gon-no-shosho(major general).
1855-acted as sashosho(minor captain of the left division of inner palace guards)with the rank of ason(second highest of the eight hereditary titles)on emperor's departure from the capital.
1857-u-gon-no-chujo(middle captain).
1858-jusanmi(junior third rank).
1859-shosanmi(senior third rank).
1860-toka geben(a kugyo who supervised the toka dance ritual held at the imperial court).
1867-gon-chunagon(provisional middle counselor).
january 1868-sanyo(councilor)for new meiji government.
february-gon-dainagon(provisional major counselor)
became yamato no kuni chinbu-sotoku(general in charge of placating yamato province).
july-general of the flying army in tohoku
august-sailed to echigo province,helped ou chinbu-sotoku,took part in various battles,and then arrived in tsuruoka to quell a rebellion in tohoku.
november-returned in triumph to tokyo.
army general,third class.
march 1869-went to sendai as chinbu-sotoku to prevent the hakodate army moving inland and suppressed civil disorder.
july-army major general.
november-hyobu shoyu(junior assistant minister of war).
after that,he became genroin gikan(councilor of chamber of elders).
1884-marquis.
after that,his posts included imperial court councilor,the governor of tokyo prefecture,the director-general of sochitsuryo(imperial household affairs division).
june 1903-juichii(junior first rank).
january 10,1925-died.
he was 85 years old.
his wife yoriko was the elder sister of count otani of higashi hongan-ji temple.
his eldest daughter,yoshiko,married katsumichi otani;his second daughter,setsuko,married count yasushi matsuura;his third daughter,shizuko,married baron kunie tsumori;and his fourth daughter,fukuko,married mototate sono.
his eldest son,tsunemichi koga,became the head of the family;his second son,michiyasu koga,established a branch family and was given the rank of baron.
his third son,toshimichi iki,was adopted by kozon iki.
