fuyumoto daigo
fuyumoto daigo(august 2,1648-august 30,1697)was a high-rank court noble in the early edo period.
he was the founder of the daigo family,a branch of the ichijo family.
he mainly served emperor reigen(the 112th)and emperor higashiyama(the 113th)successively,and his official court rank culminated at shonii gon dainagon(senior second rank,a provisional chief councilor of state).
his father was akiyoshi ichijo,who was the ninth imperial prince of emperor goyozei(kobetsu[clans branched out from the imerial family]sekke[line of regents and advisers]).
his mother was unknown.
norisuke ichijo was his older brother.
fuyuhiro daigo and kintomo tokudaiji were among his children.
in 1674,he was given shogoinoge(senior fifth rank,lower grade).
in 1679,he was conferred jusanmi konoe no chujo(junior third rank,middle captain of the palace guards)and joined the realm of kugyo(high-rank court nobles).
in the same year,he was conferred by emperor reigen(fuyumoto's cousin)the family name 'daigo' and became independent from the paternal ichijo family.
after working as gon chunagon(a provisional vice-councilor of state),toka no sechie geben(a kugyo who supervised the event of toka[ceremonial mass singing and stomp dancing]called toka no sechie held at the imperial court on around the fifteenth day of the first month of the year),saemon no kami(captain of the left division of outer palace guards),and uhyoe no kami(captain of the right division of middle palace guards),he was assigned to togu gon no daibu(provisional master of the crown prince's quarters)serving imperial prince asahito,who was invested as crown prince in 1683.
in 1684,he assumed the additional post of gon dainagon(a provisional chief councilor of state).
upon crown prince asahito's ascendance to the throne in 1687,fuyumoto stepped down from the post of togu gon no daibu.
in 1694,he was promoted to shonii(senior second rank).
in 1697,he stepped down from gon dainagon.
he passed away in the same year.
he died at the age of 50.
