ryozo shukuin
ryozo shukuin(circa 1821-january 30,1868)was a common member of the miburoshigumi(mibu masterless warriors group,which was the forerunner of the shinsengumi)and the shinsengumi(literally,the newly selected corps,referring to a special police force for the tokugawa regime).
the name ryozo which was written as "良蔵" in japanese was also written as "良三" or "良造."
ryozo was from kyoto,or kameyama domain in tanba province.
ryozo is said to have died at the age of 47 or 48,which is,however,disputed.
generally,ryozo has been famous for participating in the ikedaya incident,and although it is unclear when he joined the shinsengumi,yet he participated in the palace coup of august 18 which occurred on september 30,1863,thus making it possible to infer that he had been a member since the time of the miburoshigumi which was the forerunner of the shinsengumi.
in the ikedaya incident taking place in july 8,1864,ryozo was a troop of toshizo hijikata's unit,taking charge of defense outside of the ikedaya.
ryozo received a reward of 15 ryo(the term ryo was the unit of gold currency).
when takehachiro kazurayama committed hara-kiri in october,1864,ryozo and sanjuro tani visited koen-ji temple as tanomikoshibito(who were in charge of requesting burial of the deceased after hara-kiri and/or carrying the body of the deceased after hara-kiri)for takehachiro.
further,in december,1864,or in january,1865,the shinsengumi structured its organization and ryozo was assigned to the third unit('sanbangumi' in japanese)led by genzaburo inoue.
ryozo's name appeared as a hira doshi(regimental soldier)in a record of the shinsengumi which was formally employed as a group of mercenaries by the tokugawa bakufu on july 11,1867.
ryozo fought the battle of toba-fushimi which was known as the first siege of the boshin civil war commencing on january 27,1868,and was eventually killed in the battle of hashimoto on january 30th.
according to a divergent opinion,ryozo was killed in battle on january 27,1868.
