imperial prince koreyasu
imperial prince koreyasu(june 2,1264-december 3,1326)was the 7th seii taishogun(literally, "great general who subdues the barbarians")of the kamakura shogunate.
he was the first son of prince munetaka,the 6th shogun and his mother was saiko,a daughter of the regent(sessho),kanetsune konoe.
biography
he was born in kamakura,sagami province(present-day kamakura city,kanagawa prefecture).
in august 1266,at the age of 3,he became seii taishogun when imperial prince munetaka was dismissed and sent back to kyoto.
at first a plain prince rather than an imperial prince,after becoming seii taishogun he was made a commoner and received the surname,minamoto,and used the name minamoto no koreyasu(a member of the gosaga-genji).
in september 1289,he was dismissed as shogun and sent back to kyoto because the hojo clan,who controlled the shogunate,wanted to make imperial prince hisaaki(the son of retired emperor gofukakusa)the next shogun.
in preparation for his dismissal,the shogunate required him to regain imperial status and he received the title imperial prince from the emperor,becoming 'prince koreyasu.'
according to the "masukagami" historical tale,he was sent back to kyoto upside down on a crude 'wickerwork mikoshi portable shrine.'
in january of the following year,he entered the priesthood.
he died at the age of 62 in 1326.
chronology of government posts and ranks
lunar calendar used for dates.
july 24,1266:given the rank of ju shi-i no ge.
named seii taishogun by the emperor.
known as prince koreyasu(koreyasu-o).
december 20,1270:given the surname,minamoto,and took the name minamoto no koreyasu.
promoted to shosanmi(senior third rank)and made sakone no chujo(middle captain of the left division of inner palace guards)on the same day.
february 1,1271:made owari gon no kami(provisional governor of owari province).
january 5,1272:promoted to junii(junior second rank).
his position in sakone no chujo and as owari gon no kami retained unchanged.
1276:made sanuki gon no kami(the governor of sanuki province).
left his position of owari gon no kami.
january 23,1279:promoted to shonii(senior second rank).
his position in sakone no chujo and as sanuki gon no kami retained unchanged.
july 6,1287:transferred to the position of chunagon(middle counsellor)and also became ukone no daisho(major captain of the right division of inner palace guards).
september 26:resigned from his position as ukone no daisho.
october 4:made an imperial prince.
promoted to the rank of nihon(the second highest rank for princes).
became prince koreyasu.
september 14,1289:resigned from the position of shogun.
december 6,1289:entered the priesthood.
