kanjuro fujima
kanjuro fujima is the professional name used by the head of the fujima school and the kanjuro line of performance.
the current holder of the name is the eighth-generation family head,and his family is the head family in the fujima school.
the original founder of the kanjuro line
-he later became kanbe fujima iii.
but it was not kanbe fujima who passed the name 'kanjuro,' which he temporarily used as his professional name,down to later generations;instead,it was his pupil and adopted son daisuke fujima who founded the 'kanjuro' line.
the founder
kanjuro fujima(1796-jan.16,1841)
he was the adopted son and pupil of kanbe fujima iii.
his original name was daisuke seyama,and he changed it to daisuke fujima before succeeding,at the age of 38,to the name kanjuro fujima.
he created the choreography for the transformation dances of utaemon nakamura iv and sanjuro seki ii.
his nickname was 'odorikko' (dancer boy).
kanjuro fujima ii
kanjuro fujima ii(1823-1882)was the third-generation head of the fujima school of performance.
she was the adopted daughter of the family founder kanbe.
her real name was yoshi.
the second-thru fifth-generation holders of the name kanjuro fujima were women,and as such did not perform their choreography on stage.
kanjuro fujima iii
kanjuro fujima iii(year of birth unknown-1877)
note that a different branch family's head(1866-august 19,1888)took the name kanbe fujima iii(though nominally kanbe fujima iv).
kanjuro fujima iv
kanjuro fujima iv(year of birth and death unknown)
like kanjuro fujima iii,the head of a different family branch(year of birth unknown-1892)took the name kanbe fujima iv(though nominally kanbe fujima v).
kanjuro fujima v
kanjuro fujima v(year of birth unknown-march 10,1935)was the sixth-generation head of the fujima school.
her name was tatsu fujima,and she was the adopted daughter of kanjuro fujima iv.
as with earlier generations,the head of a different family branch(year of birth unknown-1926)took the name kanbe fujima v(though nominally kanbe fujima vi).
she had taught kikugoro onoe vi since early childhood,and later earned praise as a master performer.
kanjuro fujima vi
he later became known as kanso fujima the second.
kanjuro fujima vii
a woman succeeded to the name 'kanjuro' as her professional name.
she later became known as kanso fujima the third.
kanjuro fujima viii
please see the article on kanjuro fujima viii for more information.
