mataichiro hayashi
mataichiro hayashi the second(july 3,1893-december 31,1966)was a kabuki actor in osaka.
his real name was chozaburo hayashi,and his stage family name was narikomaya.
his haimyo(also known as haimei)(the term originally refers to a pen name as a haiku poet,but it also refers to a kabuki actor's offstage name which can be used officially and privately)was goshiki or sancho.
he was born in osaka as the first son of ganjiro nakamura(the first).
he made a debut in march,1901,acting "sengoku sodo" (sengoku disturbance)at nakaza theater in osaka.
he took the stage by his real name,chozaburo hayashi.
since then,he came to act jointly with his father.
as he grew older,he acted on his own accord,such as hosting a workshop, 'goshiki-za,' etc.,however,his poor physical conditions by nature did him harm,and he transferred the family name of the next(second) 'ganjiro nakamura' to his younger brother(ganjiro nakamura[the second]).
he himself assumed the name of mataichiro hayashi the second at osaka kabuki-za theater in october,1942,acting matahei in "keisei hangonko," and tadanobu kitsune in "yoshitsune senbonzakura,mt.yoshino" (yoshitsune and one thousand cherry trees).
the professional names for kabuki actor,mataichiro,derived from an actor acting 'mataichiro kabuki' in the genroku era,and he identified himself as 'the second.'
since he was hidden behind his great father and younger brother,and further experienced a sluggish period of kansai kabuki,he had been obscure all his life without achieving any success as an actor,however,he showed an antique and skillful taste when acting manjiro in "ise ondo" (ise dance),and a wakashu(a teenage kabuki apprentice and also male prostitute)such as chube in "meido no hikyaku" (from the courier for hell),etc.
he also acted a tachiyaku(leading male-role actor),and supported kabuki plays.
however,since his antique performance sometimes didn't match with other co-actors,and disturbed the ensemble of kabuki plays,he was often kept at a distance by related people,and forced to act a character which would not suit to his style,or a bit part
it is said that this was one of the causes for his slower growth.
it deserves special mention that he was appreciated as 'mataichiro is second to none in kabuki dancing,' and was reputed to be one of the two leading authorities of kabuki buyo(kabuki dance)in the showa era,as well as mitsugoro bando(the seventh)in tokyo.
his dance was full of wittiness and sophistication,and delighted kabuki play fans.
he was good at acting "ryusei" (shooting star), "sanbaso" (a dance dedicated to the shrine and performed as a japanese-styled three dolls,chitose,okina and sanbaso,operated by three doll handlers),and "mitsumen," etc.,as well as "yoshino-yama" (mt.yoshino)he acted when he announced the succession to mataichiro's stage name.
he made efforts to revive kansai kabuki,establishing the 'shichinin no kai' (a kabuki study group created by seven kamigata actors)in 1958 jointly with his younger brother,ganjiro nakamura the second,nizaemon kataoka the 13th and enjaku jitsukawa the third,etc.,and participating in the 'nizaemon kabuki' subsequent thereto.
his brother-in-law was a movie actor,kazuo hasegawa.
his biological child was toshio hayashi(killed in world war ii),and his grandson is a movie actor,yoichi hatashi.
he was an uncle of tojuro sakata(the fourth),naritoshi hayashi and tamao nakamura,an actress.
