ike no taiga
ike no taiga is a literati painter during the edo period.he was born june 6,1723 and died may 30,1776.
his actual family name was ikeno,but he called himself ike in the chinese manner.
he had several childhood names,including matajiro.
his imina,a personal name that is not spoken out of respect while the individual is alive,was arina,and his azana(or adult name)was kasei.
he used the name shuhei ikeno outside of work.
he had many gago(pseudonyms),including taigado,taikado and sangaku-dosha.
his wife,ike no gyokuran,is also known as an artist.
he had an apprentice named kenkado kimura.
he was born in kyoto in 1723.
kien yanagisawa found him to be very talented and taught him bunjinga or literati painting.
along with buson yosa,he is known as a successful artist of literati painting(nanga).
he is also well-known as a calligrapher.
his works vary widely,including huge folding screens depicting historical events and famous sites in china and japanese landscapes drawn with smart and refined brushwork.
yasunari kawabata's famous collection 'juben jugi-zu(ten advantages and ten pleasures of country life)' is a book jointly created by taiga and buson which depicts the convenience of secluded life in mountains,based on rigyo's(qing dynasty,china) 'juben jugi-zu' (taiga drew the ten advantages).
they are small scale pieces that depict secluded life,a lifestyle considered to be ideal for artists,in light brushwork and a refined use of discreet colors.
once when he was talking about mt.fuji with his friends at his retreat in kyoto,they felt prompted to climb it.
they readied themselves for their climb,departed,and didn't return for a month.
later generations molded this into a story of refined pursuit.
works
zengo sekiheki-zu(a pair of six fold screens)(private collection)important cultural property 1749
mutsu kisho zu(scroll of strange sights in mutsu province)(kyushu national museum),important cultural property 1749
saiko shunkei sento kancho-zu(a pair of six fold screens)(tokyo national museum)important cultural property
ryuka doji-zu(one of eight-panel folding screens with picture of a child under a willow tree)(ikeno taiga art museum)important cultural property 1760
ho-o makitsu gyoraku-zu(hanging scroll)(kyoto national museum)important cultural property 1762
rantei kyokusui ryuzan shokai-zu(a pair of six fold screens)(shizuoka prefectural museum of art)important cultural property 1763
gohyaku rakan-zu(pictures of buddha's 500 disciples on sliding partitions)(manpuku-ji temple,kyoto)important cultural property 1756
sansui jinbutsu-zu(picture of landscape and figures on sliding partitions)(henjokoin temple,mt.koya)national treasure
rokaku sansui-zu(a pair of six folding screens with painting of pavilion and landscape)(tokyo national museum)national treasure
ten advantages in the 'juben jugi-zu' (book of artworks:ten advantages and ten pleasures of country life)(kawabata foundation)national treasure 1771
dotei sekiheki-zukan(scroll)(new otani art museum)important cultural property 1771
junikagetsu rigo sansui-zu(a pair of six fold screens)(idemitsu museum of arts)important cultural property
shosho shogai-zu(one of six-panel folding screens)(private collection)important cultural property
shosho hakkei-zu(higashiyama seion cho)(pictures on ten fans)(private collection)important cultural property
hakuun koju-zu(picture of white clouds and autumn leaves on a wide hanging scroll)(jotenkaku museum)important cultural property
