funya no watamaro
funya no watamaro(765 to june 10,823)was a seii taishogun(literally, "great general who subdues the barbarians")and kugyo(a minister)in the first half of the heian period.
watamaro was the first son of ohara mimoro.
brief personal history
because watamaro was a general who had won many battles,he was trusted by the emperor heijo.
therefore,he was held in captivity at the kusuko incident,however,his life was saved by some reasons including the appeal by sakanoue no tamuramaro in the suppressing army for saving his life.
after this,with sakanoue no tamuramaro,watamaro prevented the plan of the retired emperor heijo to revive in an eastern province.
after the war,watamaro was appointed to sangi(royal advisor)because his performance in the war was appreciated.
though watamaro was a highly ranked official,he accompanied tamuramaro and joined tamuramaro's ezo suppression.
after tamuramaro died,watamaro respected tamuramaro's will and succeeded to the position to suppress ezo.
watamaro can be said to be the great general who founded the bases of the management of the tohoku region.
timeline
year 765
watamaro was born as the first son of ohara mimoro.
year 809
watamaro changed his family name to miyama no ason and he was given a family name of funya no mahito.
year 810
the kusuko incident
watamaro followed the retired emperor heijo,was captured,and confined in saejifu(left division of the palace guards),however,he was saved by the appeal of sakanoue no tamuramaro for saving his life.
after this,with sakanoue no tamuramaro,watamaro prevented the plan of the retired emperor heijo to revive in an eastern province.
because of that performance,watamaro was appointed to sangi,an official in the ministry of the treasury,and mutsu-dewa azechi(local inspector of mutsu and dewa provinces).
year 811
watamaro was appointed to mutsu-dewa azechi and seii taishogun and suppressed two ezo villages of nisattai(or nisate)and hei.
year 812
watamaro constructed tokutan-jo castle.
year 813
watamaro was appointed to seii taishogun.
year 816
watamaro was appointed to konoe no daisho(major captain of the palace guards)and hyobusho(ministry of military)and was promoted to chunagon(vice-councilor of state).
family and clan
grandfather:funya no chinu(o/a funya no jozo).
this name 'chinu' had two ways of writing in chinese characters.
father:ohara mimoro
younger brother:funya no akitsu
younger brother:funya no miyatamaro
younger brother:bunya no umidamaro
child:funya no makio
child:funya no ujio
child:funya no atao
