tomoyuki kitabatake
tomoyuki kitabatake(1290-july 20,1332)was a kugyo(the top court official)in the end of the kamakura era.
he was a son of moroyuki kitabatake,branch family of the kitabatake family of the murakami-genji(minamoto clan).
he was a grandson of masaie kitabatake who was the first head of the kitabatake family.
chikafusa kitabatake,who was the fourth head of the head family of the kitabatake family,was his relative.
tomoyuki served emperor godaigo with chikafusa and was promoted to junii(junior second rank),gon no chunagon(provisional middle councilor).
he was very good at waka(japanese poem)and won the good graces of the emperor to become a close associate.
when chikafusa became a priest to take responsibility for the death of imperial prince yoyoshi,tomoyuki became a guardian of akiie kitabatake who succeeded the head family at a young age.
in 1331,tomoyuki became one of the main members of the anti-shogunate plot which emperor godaigo planned.
but the plot failed and tomoyuki was captured by the kamakura bakufu(japanese feudal government headed by a shogun)'s army(conspiracy of genko).
in 1332,on the way to be escorted to kamakura by takauji kyogoku(doyo sasaki),tomoyuki was killed at kashiwabarajuku in omi province(now maibara city,shiga prefecture)by order of the bakufu(kamakura government).
before execution,tomoyuki expressed his gratitude for takauji's courteous treatment,thus,takauji admired him for his attitude so that he reluctantly executed tomoyuki,even though takauji disliked court nobles because they looked down on him and calling him 'basara,' which referred to japanese aesthetics associated with the challenge of traditional ideals.
career of job grade
date＝chinese calendar
date unknown,conferred jugoinoge(junior fifth rank,lower grade).
on may 1,1301,he was appointed as ume no kami(chief of the bureau of the right stables).
on december 3,he was promoted to jugoinojo(junior fifth rank,upper grade),retained his position as ume no kami.
on april 28,1302,he resigned ume no kami.
on may 23,he was appointed as sakone no shosho(minor captain of the left palace guards).
on february 26,1306,he was promoted to shogoinoge(senior fifth rank,lower grade),resigned sakone no shosho.
on february 13,1310,he was promoted to jushiinoge(junior fourth rank,lower grade).
on june 3,1314,he was appointed as sakone no shosho(minor captain of the left palace guards).
on september 29,he was promoted to jushiinojo(junior fourth rank,upper grade),retained his position as sakone no shosho.
on december 1,1316,a leap-year,he resigned sakone no shosho.
on april 21,1318,he was appointed as ukonoe no chujo(middle captain of the right palace guards).
on december 22,he was promoted to shoshiinoge(senior fourth rank,lower grade),retained his position as ukonoe no chujo.
on certain month,dated 9 in 1319,he was appointed as mimasaka no suke(assistant provincial governor of mimasaka)concurrently.
on october 1,1319,he was moved to sakonoe no chujo(middle captain of the left palace guards).
on february 5,1321,shonagon(lesser counselor)concurrently.
on september 13,1321,uemon no suke(assistant captain of the right gate guards)concurrently.
on june 16,1322,he was moved to saemon no suke(assistant captain of the left gate guards).
retained his position as shonagon.
on february 13,1323,he resigned shonagon.
on february 26,1323,he was moved to ume no kami(chief of the bureau of the right stables).
he resigned saemon no suke(assistant captain of the left gate guards).
on may 12,shonagon,concurrently.
on september 16,1324,settsu gonno kami(senior provincial governor of settsu)concurrently.
on september 28,he was appointed as kurodo no to(chief of the palace officer).
date unknown,he resigned ume no kami.
on february 11,1325,sakonoe no chujo(middle captain of the left palace guards),concurrently.
he resigned shonagon.
on october 24,shonagon concurrently.
on march 31,1326,he was appointed as sangi(imperial adviser).
retained his position as settsu gonno kami.
on december 7,he was promoted to jusanmi(junior third rank)and resigned sangi.
date unknown,he resigned settsu gonno kami and appointed as iyo gonno kami(senior provincial governor of iyo)concurrently.
on december 30,he was appointed as sangi.
on february 12,1329,he was promoted to shosanmi(senior third rank),retained his position as sangi.
on february 20,he was appointed as jiju(chamberlain)and yamashiro gonno kami(senior provincial governor of yamashiro)concurrently.
on september 24,1330,he was moved to gon no chunagon(provisional middle councilor).
on february 20,1331,he was promoted to junii(junior second rank),retained his position as gon no chunagon.
date unknown,he resigned gon no chunagon.
on july 20,1333,he was punished by decapitation.
he was 43 years old.
burial place:tokugen-in,kiyotaki-ji temple,reitsu-zan(kiyotaki,maibara city,shiga prefecture)
