masatsune mori
masatsune mori(毛利正恒,year of birth unknown-april 6,1768)was a samurai of the satsuma domain in the edo period.
he was a flower arrangement expert of ikenobo school.
he was the fourth son of masachika mori,and moved out and set up a new branch family.
he was the great-uncle of masanao mori who was the author of "oishi hyoroku yumemonogatari" (the dream tales of hyoroku oishi).
he was initiated into all the secret way of tatebana(standing flowers arrangement)and seika(fresh flowers arrangement)by his father.
he served as a goshoin(reception room of the lord)osado(person who is in charge of tea ceremony served to a samurai family)and called himself "shuni mori",and later he became odobo(the lord's attendants in charge of entertainment)and took a second name of enami.
later,he was promoted to shoin(reception room)yakunin(government official)dobo(the lord's attendants in charge of entertainment).
at the time of june 1760,his kokudaka(income of samurai expressed by the quantity of rice)was 43 hyo(bales of rice,which is about 60 kg).
his imina(personal name)was masatsune,and his common name was hachibei.
while his year of birth is unknown,it is clear that his second older brother masaharu mori was born in 1693.
therefore,it is thought that masatsune was born after that year.
in october 1756,the bugencho(registers of vassals)which was revised in october of this year was submitted to takanushi kyogoku and others who were sent to the satsuma domain by the edo bakufu(japanese feudal government headed by a shogun)as kuni metsuke(an officer who was sent by the bakufu to investigate politics of a domain especially when the lord of this domain was a child)of shigehide shimazu who became the lord of the domain in his early childhood in the previous year.
in this bugencho there was an entry that said "shoin yakunin dobo,48 hyo,enami mori".
his family temple was nanrin-ji temple on mt.matsubara.
his hogo(posthumous buddhist name)was kyuya jusan-koji(久屋寿山居士).
one of his disciples in kado(flower arrangement)is shinsuke sadaoki enomoto,who inherited the secret of seika.
