ishikawa no natari
ishikawa no natari(born in 728 and died on july 15,788)was a government official in the nara period.
his original name was ishikawa ason.
he was a son of gyoshi taifu(a government official whose rank was next to the minister),ishikawa no toshitari.
ishikawa no mamori was his son.
his official rank was jusanmi(junior third rank),chunagon(vice-councillor of state).
summary
the first official rank he received was the rank of jugoi(junior fifth rank).
he had a good memory,eloquence and judgment.
although he was a competent official in dealing with practical matters,he held various local posts such as shimotsuke no kami(the governor of shimotsuke province),mutsu chinju shogunate(commander-in-chief of the defense of mutsu province)and dazai no shoni(a vice-minister of dazaifu).
this might be because he was not a person of character and then,treated coldly by people around him,or he was affected by the fall of his father's second cousin and his boss,fujiwara no nakamaro.
after the emperor shotoku died and the imperial lineage of the emperor tenmu which had continued since jinshin war died out and then,the emperor konin who succeeded to the imperial line from the emperor tenji was enthroned,natari was engaged in compiling shoku nihongi(chronicle of japan continued).
however,it was not completed during his lifetime,so,it was taken over by sugano no mamichi.
when the emperor kanmu was enthroned in may,781,he was appointed to be sangi(councilor),but he was already fifty-three years old.
in december during the same year,he arranged the funeral of the retired emperor konin as goshozokushi(an official who handled important rituals).
after transferring of the capital to nagaokakyo in 784,he received the official rank of jusanmi(junior third rank)on january 21,785.
the next year,he became chunagon(vice-councilor of state),which was the highest official rank he achieved.
in 788,he died.
died at 60.
record of offices and ranks held
on february,3,762,he received the official rank of jugoinoge(junior fifth rank,lower grade).
on february,17,762,he became shimotsuke no kami(the governor of shimotsuke province).
on march 1,763,he became ise no kami(the governor of ise province).
on november 27,764,he received the official rank of jugoinojo(junior fifth rank,upper grade).
on august 12,767,he became mutsu chinju fuku-shogun(deputy general of security guards in mutsu province).
on march 15,768,he became yamato no kami(the governor of yamato province).
on october 22,during the same year,he became mutsu chinju shogun(general of security guards in mutsu province).
on march 25,771,he became hyobu no taifu(the commissioner of war).
on october 5,771,he became mutsu no kami(the governor of mutsu province).
on october 1,773,he received the official rank of jushiinoge(junior fourth rank,lower grade).
on august 15,775,he became dazai no daini(senior assistant governor general of the dazai-fu).
on november 21,777,he became zo-toudaiji-chokan(the director for the construction of todai-ji temple).
on march 30,778,he became udaiben(major controller of the right).
on march 15,780,he became sangi(councillor).
on march 23,780,he became ise no kami(the governor of ise province).
on march 16,he became jushiinojo(junior fourth rank,upper grade).
on june 7,he became udaiben(major controller of the right),taking the post of sangi concurrently,and on june 25,he became ukyo no daibu(master of the western capital offices),resulting in taking three posts,sangi,udaiben and ukyo no daibu concurrently.
on january 15,782,he became goshozokushi(an official who handled important rituals).
on august 8,782,he rose to the official rank of shoshiinoge(senior fourth rank,lower grade).
on october 10,he became mimasaka no kami(the governor of mimasaka province),taking the position of udaiben concurrently.
on april 5,783,he became harima no kami(governor of harima province),thaking the position of udaiben concurrently.
on august 25,he rose to the official rank of shoshiinojo(senior fourth rank,upper grade).
on january 21,785,he rose to the official rank of jusanmi(junior third rank).
on august 19,785,he became sadaiben(controller of the left),taking the other two posts,sangi and harima no kami(the governor of harima province)concurrently.
on january 4,786,he became chunagon(vice-councilor of state).
on march 25,786,he became chugu daifu(master of the consorts' household)and harima no kami,taking other two posts of chunagon and sadaiben concurrently.
on may 17,he became kogogu daibu(master of the empress's household),taking the other four posts,chunagon,sadaiben,chugu daifu and harima no kami concurrently.
on july 13,he took the additional post of hyobukyo(minister of military affairs).
on november 5,787,he became sakyo no daibu(master of the eastern capital offices),taking the other three posts,hyobukyo,kougogu daibu and chunagon concurrently.
on march 21,788,he became yamato no kami(the governor of yamato province),taking the other three posts,chunagon,hyobukyo and kogogu daibu concurrently.
on july 21,he died.
