fujiwara no oguromaro
fujiwara no oguromaro(733-july 31,794)was a noble who lived during nara period.
he was the second son of fujiwara no ukai.
his rank was shosanmi(senior third rank)dainagon(chief councilor of state).
he was also given junii(junior second rank).
career
in 764,oguromaro was invested as jugoinoge(junior fifth rank,lower grade)and a director of ise province by a determination of rewards according to each person's merits(after examining his services)at the time of rebellion of fujiwara no nakamaro.
he promoted successively and finally became sangi(councilor)in 779 after having served as shikibu shoyu(junior assistant minister of the ministry of ceremonial),sakyo no daibu(master of the eastern capital offices)and kokushi(provincial governor)in kozuke province,hitachi province and so on.
when rebellion of korehari no azamaro(hoki rebellion)broke out in 780,he was appointed to jisetsu seito taishi(the great general of conquering east-barbarians)as a successor to fujiwara no tsugutada from the southern house of the fujiwara clan,so he led 2,000 troops and blocked the enemy's fort.
however,he disbanded troops against the barbarians in june,781,not having been able to develop large-scale military operations due to superior troops of ezo(northerners),returned to kyoto and then he was invested shosanmi(senior third rank)in august.
he was promoted to chunagon(middle counselor)in 784.
in 789,he and fujiwara no tsugutada pursued the status of defeated army for ki no kosami,seii taishi(great general who subdues the barbarians)who was bitterly defeated by aterui,the chief of ezo at the battle of subushi.
oguromaro was promoted to dainagon(a chief councilor of state)in 790.
he served as相地役of each construction for nagaoka-kyo(the ancient capital of nagaoka)in 784 and heian-kyo(the ancient capital of japan in current kyoto)in 793 and made a significant contribution to governmental management of emperor kanmu,for example,having taken a large role in funeral ceremonies and mourning events of close blood relatives of emperor kanmu,such as emperor konin,takano no niigasa,fujiwara no tabiko and fujiwara no otomuro.
he fell ill and received especially medical harb of shoso-in treasure repository but died at age 62 on july 1 in 794.
after his death,junii was given to him.
