yasuhide nagai
yasuhide nagai(1212-january 11,1254)was a person lived in the kamakura period.
he was also called yasuhide oe.
he was a grandson of oe no hiromoto.
his father was hirotoki nagai,the second son of oe no hiromoto.
in the article dated december 5,1232,of "azuma kagami",important documents and kikigaki(account of what one hears)from kyoto in and after the juei and genryaku eras,petitions of people,records of suits from samurai families in rakuchu(inside the capital),nanto,and hokurei,shikimoku(law codes in the itemized form,which were used in the medieval japan)of articles of works of ryoke(virtual proprietors of manor)and the lords of manors in and after the bunji era,and documents,such as shidai(one of component parts of a noh play)and orders of deeds of valor of eastern samurai at battles of the taira clan' in the days of oe no hiromoto were scattered,and yasutoki hojo collected them and transferred them to astride nagai.
oe no chikahiro,the first son of hiromoto,was dismissed from the important post of the bakufu after the jokyu war,but it was before the battle of hoji,suemitsu mori,the fourth son,became hyojoshu(a member of council of state)in the next year and tadashige kaito,the fifth son,became hyojoshu later.
yasuhide nagai was 21 years old at this time and became hyoujoshu nine years after that,but if this article was true,yasuhide nagai was regarded as a direct descendant of oe no hiromoto.
it is unknown whether the article of "azuma kagami" with the same date is reliable,but according to 'kanto hyojoden' (an annual listing of personnel for the years 1226 and 1232 to 1284),he already became saemon no jo(third-ranked officer of the left division of outer palace guards)at the age of 18,was conferred a peerage in the same year,became jugoinojo(junior fifth rank,upper grade)at the age of 23,shogoinoge(senior fifth rank,lower grade)shogoinoge(senior fifth rank,lower grade)at the age of 26,and kai no kami(the governor of kai province)at the age of 27,indicating that he promoted rapidly because his high social standing was recognized.
according to the article dated june 28,1242,of "azuma kagami",he became hyojoshu(a member of council of state)at the age of 30,and according to the article dated december 21,1253, 'the former kai no kami(the governor of kai province)shogoinoge(senior fifth rank,lower grade)oe ason(second highest of the eight hereditary titles)yasuhide passed away(at the age of 42).
he had a son named tokihide nagai,and a grandson named munehide nagai,who was presumed to be one of compilers of "azuma kagami".
