minoru shibuya
minoru shibuya(january 2,1907-december 20,1980)was a japanese movie director.
he was born in shichiken-cho,asakusa ward(today's motoasakusa,taito ward),tokyo.
he entered the keio university faculty of letters department of english literature but developed a chest disease and spent time recuperating.
after recuperating,he often visited shochiku kamata studio,and became an apprentice of the director kiyohiko ushihara.
in 1930,he officially joined shochiku co.,ltd.as an assistant director.
he worked and practiced under both directors mikio naruse and heinosuke gosho.
in 1937,he worked as an assistant director of the film "what did the lady forget?" directed by yasujiro ozu,and debuted as a director with the film "okusama ni shirasu bekarazu" (madame shall not know).
he became a young hopeful,releasing successive shochicu kamata style films incorporating aspects of soap opera with a dry humor.
after the war,he supported the comedy revival with films including "jiyu gakko" (lit. "school of freedom")and "honjitsu kyushin" (no consultation today)which were a comedic portrayal of post-war live.
in works such as "gendai-jin" (lit. "modern people")and "seido no kirisuto" (christ in bronze),he incorporated sharp social satire and made his presence felt.
his style was handed down to his student yuzo kawashima.
style
as mentioned above,he excelled when it came to creating what could be called typical shochiku kamata films which were cynical comedies incorporating wit.
the above can be said of almost all of his films and can also be found in works that he created outside of shochiku such as "kunsho" (medal)(1954)and the comedy "aogeba totoshi"(respecting teachers)(1966).
this style was incredibly popular with audiences at the time and during his life,his ability to attract audiences was comparable to yasujiro ozu and keisuke kinoshita.
he came to direct "daikon to ninjin" (radishes and carrots),which was originally planned by director ozu as a project to follow "sanma no aji" (an autumn afternoon),due to an appreciation for his popularity and ability.
meanwhile,he launched chikage awashima into the film industry with "tenya wanya" (crazy uproar)and had chishu ryu play a completely different character in the 1962 film "yopparai tengoku" (lit. "heaven for the drunk")from those characters in the works of ozu and kinoshita and the 'otoko wa tsurai yo' (it's tough being a man)series,indicating his ability to bring out the latent abilities of actors.
ryo ikebe said that his eyes were opened to acting by the film "gendai-jin" (postwar japanese)(1952).
the film "kichigai buraku" (the unbalanced wheel)(1957)was banned from release mainly due to its title(however,it is shown at theaters for retrospective screenings).
