kahei sasaki
kahei sasaki(july 7,1889-may 2,1983)was an architect of temples and shrines.
he was born in the sasaki family that had a long history of work as carpenters specializing in temples and shrines in fukuno-machi higashi tonami-gun,toyama prefecture(present fukuno,nanto city).
career
he studied under his father kahei sasaki the third,learned the techniques and acquired the knowledge on his own,and became involved in renovation and preservation of numerous national treasures and important cultural heritages throughout the nation.
he was awarded the ojuhosho(medal with a yellow ribbon for industriousness)in 1971.
this kahei sasaki the fourth also called himself tokei sasaki as a master carpenter.
his posthumous buddhist name is byodoin shaku tokei koji(平等院釈棟慶居士).
achievement
kyoto city;head temple of otani school of the jodo shinshu(the true pure land sect of buddhism),higashi hongan-ji temple;important cultural heritage;temple gate;(construction)
(he followed his father kahei sasaki the third)
ishikawa prefecture;grand head temple of nichiren sect,myojo-ji temple;important cultural heritage;five-story pagoda;(restoration)
kyoto city;head temple of kosho school of the jodo shinshu,kosho-ji temple;amida-do hall and temple gate;(reconstruction)
kamakura city;grand head temple of rinzai sect,kencho-ji temple;buddha hall and imperial messenger's gate(chinese gate);(restoration)
asakusa,taito ward;sho-kannon sect,senso-ji temple;kannon-do hall(main hall);(repair)
it was burnt down on march 10 in 1945 at the great tokyo air raids.
it was a typical building of the early edo period and national treasure before the destruction by fire.
a repair office was established by the main hall of 'kannonsama(buddhist deity of mercy)of asakusa,' where the repair was carried on.
higashimurayama city;shofuku-ji temple;national treasure;jizo-do hall;(restoration)
atami city;hyuga-bettei villa;japanese room including the alcove;(renovation)
(at that time,at the request of bruno taut,a german architect who designed this villa,he gave various advice as to japanese style construction as a supervisor)
tsurumi ward,yokohama city;grand head temple of soto sect,soji-ji temple;taiso-do hall and sanmon gate;(new construction)
book
nippon kenchiku monyo hoten(precious book of japanese architecture pattern)published in 2003 by bungeisha,edited by toshitsugu shimizu and ken sasaki.
