toshizo hijikata
a soldier
toshizo hijikata(6th year of tenpo,may 5th(lunar calendar)(may 31,1835)-2nd year of meiji,may 11th(lunar calendar)(june 20,1869))was the vice commander of shinsen-gumi,vice-minister of the army for ezo republic,and also chief of the court for torishimari of hakodate city.
his imina(posthumous name)is yoshitoyo.
his pseudonym is hogyoku.
he was a vassal of the tokugawa shogunate at the end of edo period.
was feared by all as the vice commander of shinsen-gumi.
family crest is hidari mitsudomoe
his life
tama/shiei-kan
he was born in ishida village,tama district,musashi province(is now ishida,hino city,tokyo).
(he has been said to be the youngest among 6 brothers and sisters,but materials discovered in recent years revealed that he was actually the youngest among 10 brothers and sisters.)
the hijikata family was a wealthy farmer called "odaijin" who had farmed on large stretches of land in the tama region for generations.
he lost his father before he was born and his mother at the age of 6,and he was brought up by his second oldest brother,kiroku and kiroku's wife.
until now,it has been said that he went to work at "matsuzakaya ito gofuku store" (present-day matsuzakaya ueno store)in ueno,edo at the age of 11,but soon quarreled with the head clerk and returned to hino;according to a newly published copy of ninbetsu-cho of ishida village it became clear that he was living in ishida village when he was 11 years old,and therefore had not yet gone to work at the store.
although there are some missing parts based on this ninbetsu-cho it is assumed that toshizo went to work for a period of 10 years from the age of 14 to 24(counted in the old japanese way).
there is a legend that he was sent to work at a cotton wholesale store(called kamedana,in comparison with the ueno store which was called tsurudana)in edo tenma-cho,a branch of matsuzakaya ueno store,but because he had problems with a woman there(there is also a rumor that he was forced into a sexual relationship by the head clerk)he returned to hino;however,due to the existence of the ninbetsu-cho described above,the reliability of such stories are now in doubt.
subsequently,it is said that he traveled and sold "ishida sanyaku medicine" whose secret recipe has been passed on in his family;at the same time he also trained himself by fighting in many swordsmanship matches with other schools in dojos located around the country.
it is around this time that he is assumed to have met isami kondo(who later became the commander of shinsen-gumi),the 4th head of tennen rishin-ryu,who was on a training trip to sato dojo in hino;on march 29 1859,toshizo formally became a disciple of tennen rishin-ryu.
toshizo's older sister,nobu sato,was married to hikogoro sato,who was also their cousin and nanushi(headman of the city)of hino-jyuku,hino city;it is said that toshizo often visited the residence of hikogoro.
hikogoro once was nearly killed during a major fire;after this incident,and on the advice of matsugoro inoue,an older brother of genzaburo inoue,hikogoro became a disciple of tennen rishin-ryu and started a dojo in a corner of his house.
because of this background hikogoro took a pledge of brotherhood with kondo and supported tennen rishin-ryu.
it is said that toshizo also trained himself in swordsmanship at this dojo.
in february of the 3rd year of bunkyu,toshizo,together with his comrades of kondo dojo(shiei-kan),applied for the roshigumi to guard iemochi tokugawa,seii taishogun of the shogunate,and departed for kyoto.
vice commander of shinsenh-gumi
after the political change on august 18 1863,the active role of miburoshi-gumi was acknowledged,and shinsen-gumi was set up.
subsequently,nishiki nimi committed hara-kiri,and toshizo directly assassinated kamo serizawa and some others.
isami kondo,who acquired power,became the commander.
toshizo assumed the position as vice commander,and as isami kondo's right hand man he engaged himself in maintaining peace and order in kyoto.
systematic structure by each duty such as jyokin,kansatsu,etc.,of shinsen-gumi was formed,and while the head of the organization was the commander,the actual directing orders were given by toshizo,the vice commander.
upon ikedaya incident on june 5 1864,toshizo lead half of the troop to search around tantora(shikokuya),visited frequently by members of the choshyu clan and the tosa clan,but nobody was there.
he promptly rushed to ikedaya to assist and immediately had his men draw their swords from the sheaths,but instead of entering the building they guarded the area around ikedaya in order to prevent the soldiers of the aizu and the kuwana clans(who would arrive later)from entering ikedaya,thereby ensuring that only shinsen-gumi would receive full credit for the achievement.
such actions were taken with shinsen-gumi's position,still weak at the time,in consideration.
this was a tactful and calculating wit typical of toshizo.
consequently,rewards received for ikedaya incident were unprecedented,and their names became widely known throughout the country.
the shogunate unofficially notified to assign kondo as yoriki joseki(head of additional soldiers)and shinsen-gumi members as yoriki(additional soldiers),but toshizo persuaded kondo not to settle for a yoriki,aim for a daimyo instead and wait for the next opportunity;kondo heeded his advice.
within shinsen-gumi,he always made members follow the rules of shinsen-gumi and ordered a hara-kiri to the members who broke the rules;it is said that the members feared him.
therefore,it is said that the top reason for death of a shinsen-gumi was due to hara-kiri.
also,members who escaped from shinsen-gumi were made to conduct hara-kiri or were killed with a sword and[their bodies]exhibited as warning to others.
subsequently,the other vice commander,keisuke yamanami assumed the position of soucho,and hijikata became the only vice commander.
regarding the incident where yamanami was ordered to conduct a hara-kiri after he lost his position within shinsen-gumi and escaped[and captured],it is said that there was a dispute between yamanami and hijikata,but actually they seemed to have been good friends.
after that,he also had kisaburo kawai,sanjyuro tani,kanryusai takeda and others conduct hara-kiri,or had them killed by a sword so as to maintain the order within shinsen-gumi.
he sent hajime saito to goryoeji formed by kashitaro ito and took measures to successfully prevent ito's plan to assassinate kondo;he assassinated ito and heisuke todo and completely destroyed goryoeji(however,there are different stories regarding goryoeji and ito).
boshin war
he was promoted to a vassal of the tokugawa shogunate in june,1867.
however,on october 14th of the same year,yoshinobu tokugawa resigned from the position of seii taishogun,and upon restoration of the imperial rule(japan)on december 9th,the shogunate essentially collapsed.
on january,13th,4th year of keio,boshin war started with the battle of toba fushimi;in place of isami kondo,who was wounded in sumizome incident,toshizo lead shinsen-gumi and fought as a deputy of commander but was defeated against the army of the new government in gun fighting.
from around the 1st year of keio,prior to being defeated in battle of toba fushimi,toshizo realized that from now on war could not be fought with swords and he started to prepare western-style armaments.
after the shogunate army lost battle of toba fushimi and retreated from osaka to edo,kondo temporarily named himself yamato okubo and toshizo named himself hayato naito,and they set off to kai province.
however,on march 6th they were defeated in battle of kosyu katsunuma.
toshizo rushed to request for reinforcements but was not successful.
subsequently,they were trying to recover power in nagareyama but on april 3rd,they were suddenly surrounded by the army of the new government;the commander,kondo,surrendered himself to the army of the new government.
on this occasion,it is said that toshizo stopped kondo from committing hara-kiri,and persuaded kondo to present himself to the army of the new government.
toshizo went to edo and directly negotiated with kaishu katsu and others and pleaded them to spare kondo's life,but he was not successful;kondo was executed(beheaded)on april 25 1868,at a place close to itabashi(currently,his tomb is located in front of jr itabashi station).
after kondo surrendered himself to the army of the new government,toshizo,besides pleading for kondo's life,entrusted shinsen-gumi in the care of hajime saito(jiro yamaguchi)and made them go to aizu;toshizo took only a few members including kai shimada and joined the army led by keisuke otori and others,which was formed by men who escaped from the army of the former shogunate.
on april 11th,when evacuation of edo castle without bloodshed succeded,toshizo escaped from edo and acted as a staff officer of the vanguard army led by noborinosuke akizuki.
they passed through the shimodate clan and the shimotsuma clan,and won the battle of utsunomiya castle and conquered utsunomiya castle.
however,they lost battle of mibu and fled;they fought again with the army of the new government in utsunomiya during which toshizo injured his leg;he was escorted to aizu before the main army arrived in aizu.
in aizu,he spent 3 months in recuperation,and it is said that during this time he built isami kondo's tomb in tennei-ji temple.
after he fully recovered and returned to the battle line he endeavored to protect aizu,but battle of aizu intensified after they lost the battle of bonari-toge in august.
toshizo visited the shonai clan to request for reinforcements,but shonai had already pledged allegiance to the new government and did not allow him to even enter the castle.
toshizo decided to depart for sendai from aizu.
it is said that jiro yamaguchi(hajime saito)and others appealed to keisuke otori,who left the battle line in a way similar to toshizo,that he should be as loyal as possible to the aizu clan;however,this story comes from an old document which was recorded at a later date in hakodate.
hijikata had not returned to shinsen-gumi when they were in the domains of the aizu clan.
shinsen-gumi broke up into the group of yamaguchi and others who remained in the castle town and the group of members who left at tennei-ji temple.
toshizo arrived in sendai and joined the navy of the former shogunate led by takeaki enomoto.
together with enomoto toshizo participated in military meetings of ouetsu reppan domei(northern alliance)and was recommended to become general of domei army;however,ouetsu reppan domei soon collapsed,and after the clans forming the domei army surrended one after another to the army of the new government,toshizo decided to fight until the end,so long as there is a place where he can fight.
the shinsen-gumi members who remained alive boarded oemaru along with the men from the kuwana clan,and they left orinohama,sendai(currently,orinohama,ishinomaki city,miyagi prefecture)with takeaki enomoto and others on october 12th and went to ezo.
hakodate war(died in the war)
the image of toshizo hijikata
after landing on washinoki of ezo on october 20th,toshizo became general of kando army and headed for goryokaku.
shinsen-gumi traveled by the main road under the leadership of general keisuke otori,but a few members of shinsen-gumi including kai shimada,are said to have followed toshizo.
after occupying goryokaku in hakodate toshizo advanced his army including gakuheitai army and others.;he conquered matsumae castle(fukuyama castle)and chased the retreating army of the enemy to esashi.
on this occasion,takeaki enomoto went to the offing of esashi in order to support hijikata's family from the sea,but his ship was stranded because of a storm.
enomoto,who landed in esashi,and toshizo watched kaiyomaru sink,and they are said to have punched a pine tree which stood nearby and lamented together;the "nageki no matsu" (pine tree of lament)still remains today.
toshizo,who managed to occupy esashi,temporarily returned to matsumae castle;he returned to goryokaku on december 15th for the celebration of conquest of ezo held by enomoto,to which enomoto invited the consuls of various countries.
subsequently,an election to determine leaders was held,and ezo republic(headquarters in goryokaku)was established;toshizo,as one of the leaders,became vice-minister of the army and concurrently served as torishimari of hakodate city and chief of the court of the army and the navy.
it is said that toshizo remained calm in hakodate.
when enomoto and others were drinking to celebrate the establishment of the hakodate government toshizo alone remained silent and said "this is not the time for jubilation."
he was engaged in consolidating hakodate/goryokaku from january to february,and when the news of an attack by the army of the new government reached his ears in march toshizo participated in naval battle of miyakowan which targeted to seize azuma-kan of the army of the new government;however,this operation failed,and many died or were wounded,but toshizo managed to return safely.
on april 9,1869,the army of the new government started to land in otobe,ezo.
toshizo made every effort to defend against the attacks of the army of the new government in battle of futamataguchi.
during the battle,the army of the new government rang bells to trick the enemy into thinking that they were surrounded;hijikata's army thought that they were surrounded and was upset.
toshizo calmly judged the circumstances and calmed his men down by telling them that "if our enemy really wished to surround us they would hide all noises so that we will not notice them."
also,in between the fighting,toshizo himself went around and offered his men a drink of sake.
he told them "only one drink for each of you,as i do not want you to get drunk and break the rules of the army";his men laughed and agreed.
futamataguchi,which hijikata army defended desparately,continued to win a series of battles.
however,the other entrance at matsumaeguchi fell under the attacks of the enemy,and as there was a risk of losing a route for a retreat they had no choice but to return to goryokaku.
the soldiers lead by ohno,who were advancing in the direction of daiba under the order of toshizo,were temporarily regaining their power,but they suddenly lost control and suffered a total defeat despite ohno's desperate instructions.
ohno had no choice but to return,and he was informed by saisuke yasutomi,who was also an assistant general of the army,that toshizo had died in the battle.
toshizo's body was claimed by chonosuke koshiba and others,and is said to have been buried either in goryokaku with the bodies of others who died in the war or in another place.
the other place[of burial]has not been specified.
he died at the age of 35.
his farewell poem was "even if my body decays around the islands of ezo,my soul will protect my lord who lives in the east ".
the poem is also known as "should my body decay in the islands of ezo,my soul will protect my lord who lives in the east."
the locations of his tombs are:
sekidenji temple of ishida,hino city,tokyo,
shomyo-ji temple of funami-cho,hakodate-city,hokkaido(memorial).
tennei-ji temple of higashiyamamachi,aizu-wakamatsu city,fukushima prefecture(wooden memorial).
jyutokuji temple of takinogawa,kita-ku,tokyo
entsuji temple of minami senju,arakawa-ku,tokyo,and others.
toshizo's kosyo(servant;personal assisitant),tetsunosuke ichimura
just before his death,toshizo handed locks of his hair to be kept as a memonto and his photograph to tetsunosuke chimura,who served him as kosyo,and ordered tetsunosuke to "deliver them to my family in hino."
ichimura refused this request,saying "i came here to die in battle,
please give your order to someone else".
on hearing this,toshizo said with a glare "if you refuse,i will kill you here now".
ichimura was overwhelmed by such strong spirit of toshizo and agreed to carry out his order.
when he departed for hino,ichimura realized that someone was standing by a window.
ichimura left the words that "i could not tell who it was,but probably it was mr.hijikata".
subsequently,ichimura managed to safely deliver toshizo's articles to hikogoro sato at hino-jyuku.
his favorite swords were the sword,izumi no kami kenesada
and the small sword,horikawa kunihiro.
anecdotes
it is said that when he was a child,he often remained naked after taking a bath,and practiced sumo with a pillar in his house.
the pillar still exists today.
＝>a story that has been handed down in the hijikata family.
taken from "taizo hijikata told by his descendants" written by meguji hijikata.
the pillar is kept at hijikata toshizo museum.
when his nephew(hikogoro sato's 3rd son,tamekichi)fell down in the garden and cut his forehead,it is said that taizo immediately rushed towards tamekichi,laughed and caressed the boy saying, "the boy is wounded when he was confronting the world,so joyful,so joyful."
＝>a story that has been handed down in the sato family.
taken from "kikigaki shinsengumi" written by akira sato.
only records of chugokui mokuroku awarded to toshizo remain in tennen-rishin-ryu dojo today.
it seems that he could not get rid of the ways of various schools which he learnt while he was traveling as a peddler.
nevertheless,it is said that he was awfully strong in actual fighting(it is said that he fought with no restraints,for example,by throwing the sand on the ground at his opponent and slashing or strangling him while heflinched from toshizo's initial attack).
as can be seen from his photo of a later year dressed in western clothing,it is said that toshizo was a rationalist and had the flexibility to accept useful things;for example,he owned a western pocket watch,etc.
he once said to colleagues of shinsen-gumi who were close to him, "probably i am reborn from nobunaga oda".
it is said that he created strict rules for shinsen-gumi,such as jinchu hatto and kyokuchu hatto,and mercilessly killed betrayers or those who did not follow the rules;he was referred to as the pitiless vice commander,and in general,he was considered to be a heartless person.
however,according to nobori nakajima who followed toshizo up to hakodate war,at the time of hakodate war "he was mild and was admired by his men as if he was their mother."
it is said that around this time,he started to often take young members of shinsen-gumi out to meals and drink,and he listened to and advise them on their problems.
however,there is a view that this was not because he has become older,but this was a calculated action based on his realization that he has found a place to die,as well as for motivating his men who could die tomorrow in a battle.
because he was a tall(for that time),handsome man with a fair complexion and firm features he was very popular among ladies;when he was acting as the vice commander of shinsen-gumi in kyoto he sent to his colleagues in hino a bundle of love letters he had received from many women so as to boast his popularity.
soon after he went to kyoto,a large package from him arrived in attention to shikanosuke kojima(one story says that the package was addressed to the disciples of kondo dojo).
shikanosuke opened the package thinking that toshizo might have sent presents from kyoto,but the package was filled with love letters from geishas and apprentice geishas who were in love with toshizo.the following tanka poem is said to have accompanied the letter[from toshizo]:
ladies make me forget to do my best for my country.
＝>a story told by shikanosuke kojima.
taken from "shinsen-gumi yowa" written by masataka kojima.
toshizo,who had his leg wounded in battle of utsunomiya,was in sickbed at an inn in the castle town of aizu wakamatsu from around april to july of 1868(there are different views regarding the period).
one day,mitsuzo mochizuki,a vassal of the shogunate and a public servant who was staying at the same inn as toshizo,visited him,but toshizo remained in his bed and said to him, "fight with us."
mochizuki who got annoyed by this arrogant attitude refused by saying, "i am a public servant so i cannot fight."
then toshizo spoke unreservedly "then what did you come so far away for,you coward!"
mochizuki retorted that "you were fortunate enough to seize utsunomiya castle,but wasn't the castle soon retaken?
it is probably difficult to seize the castle again now.
how regrettable.
i have no choice but to call you a coward,also".
toshizo,upon hearing mochizuki,shouted "shut up,you are making my illness worse.
i do not want to hear any more from you,
leave" so mochizuki left his room.
on this occasion,toshizo was so angry that he threw his pillow at mochizuki.
＝>taken from "yumeno uwagoto" written by mitsuzo mochizuki and "kokuhaku no kokuhatsu" written by shison mochizuki.
when toshizo was in edo,he normally stayed in kamaya,an inn patronized by the shogunate.
it was one of the busy chaya restaurants among shinagawa-syuku,and the following record remains today: "on october 21st,the third year of keio,family and disciples of the shinsen-gumi member,toshizo hijikata,totaling 31 people rested,hanuemon kamaya,fee was 9 kan and 300 mon."
a memorial of shinsen-gumi now stands at the site of kamaya(currently,aomono-yokocho station,shinagawa-ku).
hobbies
surprisingly,he was a person of taste,and he enjoyed making tanka poems and haiku,etc.
he has written many poems and left poetry books such as "hogyoku hokku-shu," etc.
i can see the spring moon on my way to a public duty.
the crescent moon is shining at the bottom of a puddle formed by the spring rain.
my heart is pure,as i face my reflection on the water.
i listen to the sounds made by a plover,together with the sounds of water.
i see the spring moon over the temple gate.
if an apricot flower blooms,even if only one,it is still an apricot flower.
the seven plants of spring,i manage to memorize up to five.
i cannot help resting my hand as i dust the shelves,when i hear a warbler sing.
it is cold sleeping in a shabby house,the spring moon shines above.
the road of love,if you know it you are lost,if you know it not,you will not get lost.
north of the waters,and south of the mountains,is the spring moon.
the days and months of the year which pass by,i cannot do anything about it.
the clouds of may fly towards my hometown.
the road of love,if you know it you are lost,if you know it not,you will not get lost.
it is indeed the month of march,some snow vanish as they fall.
on the morning snow,there are no horizontal footsteps.
actors and voice artists who played toshizo hijikata
because of the excellent performance given in "shinsengumi keppuroku" and "moeyo ken",asahi kurizuka is known as a legendary figure and a great actor playing the part of toshizo hijikata.
it is well known that when ryotaro shiba saw asahi kurizuka wearing the uniform of shinsen-gumi,shiba highly praised kurizuka.
movies
acted by seizaburo kawazu "shinsen-gumi part 1 the book of kyou rakufu-kan,part 2 ikedaya incident,part 3 maken-ranbu" (director:ryo hagiwara),year 1952 by toei.
acted by kensaku hara "shinsen-gumi oni taicho" (director:toshikazu kono)year 1954.
acted by isao yamagata "shinsen-gumi" (director:yasushi sasaki)year 1958.
acted by yataro kurokawa "souretsu shinsen-gumi"(director:yasushi sasaki)year 1960 by toei.
acted by ichiro ryuzaki "fu-un shinsen-gumi" (director:masaki mori)year 1961 by shintoho.
acted by takeshi kato "shinsengumi keppuroku isami kondo" (director:shigehiro ozawa)
acted by shigeru amachi "shinsen-gumi shimatsuki" (director:kenji misumi),year 1963 by daiei.
acted by ko nishimura "cruel story of the shogunate's downfall" (director:tai kato),year 1964 by toei.
acted by asahi kurizuka "toshizo hijikata moyeyo ken" (director:hirokazu ichimura),year 1966 by shochiku.
acted by keiju kobayashi "shinsengumi" (director:tadashi sawashima),year 1969 by toho.
acted by koji takahashi "okita soji(movie)" (director:masanobu deme),year 1974,by toho.
acted by norio nishikawa "hissatsu!buraun-kan no kaibutsu-tachi" (director:jyo hirose)(year 1985,hissatsu series),by shochiku.
acted by tetta sugimoto "bakumatsu junjyo-den" (director:mitsuyuki yakushiji)year 1991,by shochiku.
acted by beat takeshi "taboo(movie)" (director:nagisa oshima,year 1999,by shochiku.
acted by kiichi nakai "shinsengumi" (director:kon ichikawa),year 2000,by media box.
acted by eugene nomura "when the last sword is drawn" (director:yojiro otaki),year 2003,by shochiku.
tv dramas
acted by asahi kurizuka "shinsengumi keppuroku" year 1965,by tv asahi.
acted by yoshio kaneuchi "ryoma ga yuku(nhk taiga drama)" year 1968.
acted by asahi kurizuka "moeyo ken" year 1970,by tv asahi.
acted by asahi kurizuka "shinsengumi" year 1973.
acted by tatsuya fuji "katsu kaishu(nhk taiga drama)year 1974.
acted by ikko furuya "shinsen-gumi shimatsuki".
acted by shozaburo date "ryoma ga yuku year 1982 version" by tv tokyo.
acted by isao natsuyagi "mibu no koi uta" year 1983,by nhk.
acted by masaomi kondo "byakko-tai(nippon television network tv drama)" year 1986.
acted by muga takewaki "shinsengumi" year 1987.
acted by tetsuya watari "goryokaku(tv drama)" year-end jidaigeki special,by nippon television network.
acted by koji yakusho "moeyo ken" year 1990,by tv tokyo.
acted by takeo chii "shinsen-gumi ikedaya no ketto" year 1992,tokyo broadcasting system.
acted by jyun hashizume "tokugawa yoshinobu(nhk taiga drama)"year 1998.
acted by hiroaki murakami "shinsengumi keppuroku" year 1998,by tv asahi.
acted by tsuyoshi ihara "when the last sword is drawn" year 2002,by tv tokyo.
acted by koji yamamoto "shinsengumi!" year 2004,nhk taiga drama.
acted by koji yamamoto "shinsengumi!!hijikata toshizo saigono ichi-nichi" year 2006,by nhk(sequel to "shinsengumi!").
acted by hideaki ito "wachigaiya itosato" year 2007,by tbs.
theater
acted by rei asami "hoshikage no hito".
acted by saki asaji "makotono gunzo/miwaku ii-neo egoist!" year 1997.
acted by kazuhiro komatsu "chio chimorin s" (year 2003,by theater unit pan-dan sasa).
hokkaido telecom cente,telecom hall
acted by tatsuya kamikawa "moeyo ken" year 2004.
acted by yo oizumi "looser-ushinai tsuzukete shimau album-" (year 2004,10th performance of team-nacs).
sapporo performance-sapporo factory hall-tokyo performance-ikebukuro sunshine theatre encore performance-nippon-seinenkan.
acted by sho aikawa "kansai super show aboru-daaju" year 2004.
acted by yukihiro eda and megumi koyama "sakura gasane" (year 2007,24th performance of theater sk group).
tokyo performance-theater green big tree theater sapporo performance-theater zoo.
acted by mao ayabuki/kei otozuki "hoshikage no hito".
acted by kaoru oura "sakura no gotoku,like a cherry tree" (february 2005,fa kikaku[theatre division]sakura sakura company)kyoto drama festival.
acted by kaoru oura "sakura no gotoku,like a cherry tree" (august 2006,fa kikaku[theatre division]sakura sakura company)participated in the 2006 new york international fringe festival,and received judges' special award.
acted by kaoru oura "hokuten genou-hijikata sekisomu-"(year 2008,fa kikaku[theatre division]sakura sakura company history monologue series no.3).
animation/tv games
acted by jyoji nakata "peacemaker kurogane".
acted by nobuyuki hiyama "bakumatsu kikansetsu irohanihoheto".
acted by taiten kusunoki "mutsu enmei ryugaiden shura no toki".
acted by rikiya koyama "rurouni kenshin:meiji kenyaku romantan".
acted by ryotaro okiayu "bakumatsu renka shinsengumi".
acted by takehito koyasu "shinsengumi gunrouden".
radio/drama cd's
acted by tatsuya kamikawa "kaze hikaru(taeko watanabe)".
acted by daisuke hirakawa "hinata no ookami:shinsengumi kidan".
workes featuring toshizo hijikata as the main character.
regarding works in which toshizo hijikata appears,refer also to works based on shinsen-gumi and category shinsen-gumi.
novels
by ryotaro shiba "moeyo ken".
by miyoko ouchi "hijikata toshizo".
by niki hirose "hijikata toshizo sange" year 1982,isbn 4872701364
by minori hagio "sange・hijikata toshizo" year 1989,isbn 4829110686
was later revised,and also published as "hijikata toshizo sange".
isbn 4404016174
by aiko kitahara "toshizo karano dengon" isbn 4062748304.
by aiko kitahara "kurayami kara hijikata toshizo ibun" isbn 440853241x.
by riichi nakaba "baragaki-hijikata toshizo seishun-fu" year 2000,isbn 4062738678(the isbn is for pocket book version).
by kano akiyama "toshizo yukite mata" year 2002,isbn 4835537459.
by kenzo kitakata "kokuryu no hitsugi" year 2002,book 1 isbn 4620106607,book 2 isbn 4620106615.
by shotaro ikenami "iro" (included in his book of short stories, "honoo no bushi").
by hitoshi yoshioka "toshizo hijikata on mars" (asahi sonorama)-a sf novel which tells the adventures of toshizo hijikata,after he died in hakodate and is reborn on mars in "mars series" of edgar rice burroughs.
year 2004 isbn 4257770341
comics
by misaki saito "hinatano ookami".
by mikiya mochizuki "ore no shinsengumi"
by kenji morita "getsumei seiki-sayonara shinsengumi".
by ko akizuki "seishun shinsengumi baragaki!".
by takeshi kanda "kitano shishi shinsetsu hijikata taizo den"-is focused on hakodate war.
by aya kanno "hokusou shinsengumi"-of the short comics included in this book, "junbaku" has toshizo hijikata as the main character,and describes his relationship with keisuke otori,who served as the general of the army.
