mononobe no himuka
mononobe no himuka(years of birth and death unknown)lived during japan's asuka period.
the reading of his name is the same in the old japanese kana syllabary.
he later changed his surname from mononobe,which was the surname used by members of the ancient and powerful mononobe clan,to furu.
his kabane(hereditary title)was obito,but he was later awarded the titles of muraji and then sukune.
in the jinshin war of 672,he became an envoy responsible for mobilizing forces for prince otomo(later emperor kobun),but he was taken prisoner and switched allegiance to prince oama(later emperor tenmu).
jinshin war
according to "nihonshoki" (chronicles of japan),in the end of june in the year of mizunoe-saru(one of the oriental zodiac),the imperial court of omi no miya which knew prince oama(later emperor tenmu)raised an army dispatched the envoys to many places and raised the army for its suppression.
the envoys to the city in yamato were hozumi no momotari and his younger brothers hozumi no ioe and mononobe no himuka on this occasion.
yamato means 'yamato province' and the city in yamato means the former capital in asuka.
there was prince takasaka as rusutsukasa(a guard of the city)and the three envoys forwarded the organization of the army with him.
the camp was under a zelkova tree in the west of asuka-dera temple.
otomo no fukei,however,got the dozens of comrades and forwarded the preparation to fight for prince oama in yamato on this occasion.
on june 29,fukei and the others went into the camp under the zelkova tree in the west of asuka-dera temple and took over the command of the army after getting the betrayal.
hozumi no momotari was killed and ioe and mononobe no himuka were imprisoned.
they were forgiven after a while,and then joined the army of prince oama side.
change of the shisei(the clan and the hereditary title)
according to nihonshoki,on september 2,683,mononobe no obito changed his kabane to muraji.
in the section of furu no sukune of yamato kobetsu(clans branched out from the imperial family)of "shinsen shojiroku" (newly compiled register of clan names and titles of nobility),it is written that mononobe no obito 'the shogoinojo(senior fifth rank,upper grade)himuke changed kabane to furu no sukune under the name of the shrine's land at the period of emperor tenmu'
although nihonshoki does not mention that,it says furu no muraji was given the kabane of sukune on december 2,684.
considering these points,in the changes such as mononobe no obito,mononobe no muraji,furu no muraji and furu no sukune,it is unknown when he changed from mononobe to furu in a range of one year.
shogoinojo is a court rank after 701 so himuke was still alive at this point in time,if it is reliable.
but since "shinsen shojiroku" was made in heian period,there is also possibility the changed ranks were adopted for the later system.
