norimichi inaba
norimichi inaba(1603-october 6,1648)was the second han head of the tamaru han(tamaru domain)in ise no kuni(ise province).
he was the head of nakajima han(nakajima domain)in settsu no kuni(settsu province).
he was the head of fukuchiyama han(fukuchiyama domain)in tanba no kuni(tanba province).
his father was michitoo(tsunemichi)inaba.
his grandfather was shigemichi inaba,who was the eldest child of ittetsu inaba.
his legal wife was the daughter of tadaakira matsudaira.
his official rank was jugoinoge(junior fifth rank,lower grade).
he was the awaji no kuni no kami(governor of awaji province).
he inherited and became the han head of tamaru domain in 1607 after his father passed away.
he first joined the army at the winter battle of osaka in 1614.
his estate was transferred to settsu nakajima han with the area of 45,700 koku in 1616.
his estate was transferred to tanba fukuchiyama han in 1624.
however,the han government of fukuchiyama han was the worst,and heavily taxed people possessing estates,and carried out a misguided government of the people,killing and capturing all those who opposed him.
in addition,it caused a conflict with takahiro kyogoku of the neighboring miyazu han(miyazu domain)in tango no kuni(tango province).
furthermore,the bereaved family of those killed by the government of norimichi complained to the bakufu(government ruled by a shogun)that norimichi was suspected of causing a rebellion.
the bakufu could not ignore norimichi's government and ordered several neighboring han to subjugate him.
however,norimichi shot himself to death with a rifle within fukuchiyama castle on october 6,1648 immediately before the order was carried out and the inaba clan was dismissed from the post and replaced by someone else.
he died at the age of forty-six.
in addition,his son,daisuke,was left in care of masanori inaba on october 11 and was pardoned on april 17 of the following year,as it was found that there was no rebellion,but died from smallpox at the age of four in 1651 and the family name ended.
the hogo(posthumously given buddhist name)of norimichi was kenryu inden kyoun sasei daikoji.
his grave is located in zakke-in temple in tatchu(sub-temple)of myoshin-ji temple in hanazono myoshinji-cho,ukyo ward,kyoto city.
