miki nakayama
miki nakayama(june 2,1798 to february 18,1887)was a japanese religious leader(the founder of the tenrikyo-sect).
she is called "oyasama" (parent)by the followers of tenrikyo.
biography
on the morning of april 18,1798,she was born to the family of hanshichi maekawa in sanmaiden village of yamabe country in yamato province(present day sanmaidencho,tenri city,nara prefecture).
for generations,the maekawa family had been parishioners of the jodo(pure land)sect;therefore she was influenced by the sect since her childhood.
she aspired to become a jodo(pure land)sect priestess,and received goju soden(fivefold transmission)at age of 19.
she was a devout believer of jodo(pure land)sect.
on october 13,1810,she married zenbei nakayama(the nakayama family is referred to as "the residence of origin" in tenrikyo).
on october 23,1838,when her eldest son shuji was suffering from leg pain,she invited ichibei,an ascetic buddhist monk,to perform an incantation.
she volunteered to be his substitute,and this is said to be the moment when she was possessed by and received a revelation from tenri o no mikoto,the oyagami(god the parent)who calls himself "god of origin,god in truth."
it is said that the god requested to have her as "kami no yashiro" (the shrine of god)to save humankind but also threatened to destroy the nakayama family if they refused.
on october 26,when her husband,zenbei,agreed to allow miki to become "kami no yashiro"(the shrine of god),miki's pain subsided(in tenrikyo,this is called "the day of origin").
miki followed the orders from tenri o no mikoto,and gave away her possessions to the poor around her.
she continued to follow the divine orders even when she was in utmost poverty.
the number of her followers gradually increased,and in 1864,she built a place for service.
around this time,she started to actively involved in missionary work in various places.
however,prosecution intensified,and there were times when she was summoned to a regional government office and forbidden to worship.
in 1867,she engaged in the composition of "mikagura uta" and started practicing kagura(sacred music and dancing performed at a shrine)and musical instruments.
in 1867,she made a plea to the yoshida family,the jingi kanrei(person in control of the shinto worship)in kyoto,and obtained a license for missionary in which helped to subside the persecution against them.
however,after the meiji restoration,the official recognition given by the yoshida family became invalid,and in the midst of oppression under the meiji government,miki died on february 18,1887.
until her death,miki nakayama followed the divine orders and established the foundation of tenrikyo by completing "mikagura zutome" in 1868.
she started to write "ofudesaki" during the new year holiday of 1869,also constructing the model for the kanrodai(pillar of heavenly dew),and designating the jiba(the birthplace of mankind)(june 19,1875).
"mikagura uta," "ofudesaki," "doroumi koki," and "osashizu" became fundamental creeds and scriptures of tenrikyo.
after miki's death,izo iburi,who was the honseki(revelatory leadership position in tenrikyo),continued to propagate tenrikyo(most of "osashizu" was handed down through izo iburi's preaching).
miki and her husband,zenbei,had one son and five daughters(shuji nakayama,omasa,oyasu,oharu,otsune,kokan)(the first shinbashira(central pillar),shinnosuke nakayama was the third son of oharu).
in tenrikyo,when someone passes away,it is believed that he or she returns to the "jiba," the birthplace of mankind,so they do not use expressions such as "be dead" or "pass away," but use "denaoshi" (rebirth).
however,regarding the death of the founder,miki nakayama,they say "she has hidden her figure."
this is based on the idea that "her soul resides at the residence of origin forever and watches over the growth of mankind and guards us" (from "yokoso okaeri":tenrikyo doyusha,1985).
at the headquarters of tenrikyo,the followers believe miki nakayama is still alive,and resides in the temple of the founder.
they prepare meals for her,and attend to her just as when she lived.
