kanemon fujima
kanemon fujima was the hereditary family name of the head family of the kanemon sect of the fujima school.
starting from the third generation,this family name has been succeeded by kabuki actors who were simultaneously assuming their own names.
the first generation
the first head of kanemon sect of fujima school was kanemon fujima(1813-september 7,1851).
his father was kanemon fujita(later ozatsuma bundayu iii),who was a master of nagauta(long epic song with shamisen accompaniment).
he was born in edo.
he became the disciple of kanbe fujima iv at the age of six.
he once assumed the name kintaro ichikawa as a disciple of danjuro ichikawa vii.
he represented himself as saburo tsuuchi when he began to concentrate on dance in 1843.
in 1845,he changed his name to kanemon.
in 1851,he died young of disease.
the second generation
kanemon fujima(mar.15,1840-jan.23,1925)had a real name,kintaro fujima.
he was the second generation of the head family of kanemon sect of fujima school.
he was also called 'fujima of hamacho' or 'great fujima.'
he was a real son of the founder.
he was born in yushima tenjin town and he initially became a disciple of danjuro ichikawa vii,who was a kabuki actor.
his original name was kintaro fujima.
it was when he was twelve that his father passed away,and it was when we was nineteen that he succeeded to kanemon as kanemon ii under the tuition of kanjuro fujima.
in 1867,he was temporarily adopted by senzo nishikawa and announced himself as senzo nishikawa vi.
however,he changed his name back to kanemon in 1871.
jusuke hanayagi(the founder)of hanayagi school conflicted and made the break with danjuro ichikawa(the ninth).
in exchange,he was taken on and backed up by danjuro.
in partnership with danjuro,he composed the choreographies of 'kagamijishi(the lion dance)' and 'suo otoshi(literally,dropping down suo)' and also undertook new kabuki titled 'onatsu kyoran' (onatsu's madness)and so on and left his mark on the history of kabuki.
these dances have been handed down until today.
he was also called 'fujima of hamacho' or 'great fujima.'
he announced himself as kanou fujima in his later years.
it is said that his birthday was on the 20th of february according to the lunar calendar.
his adopted child was kanemon iii.
the third generation
see the section of koshiro matsumoto vii.
the fourth generation
see the section of shoroku onoe ii.
the fifth generation
see the section of tatsunosuke onoe i.
the sixth generation
see the section of shoroku onoe iv.
