zoroku hamamura,the first
zoroku hamamura,the first(male,1735-november 26,1794)was a japanese tenkokuka(artist of seal engraving)in the middle of the edo period.
the founder of the generations of zoroku hamamura which had five generations of tenkokuka.
his main name was the tachibana clan,name was茂喬,azana(adult male's nickname)was君樹,and zoroku was his second name or alias.
his common name was rokuzo hamamura.
also called as橘茂喬.
born in katsushika,musashi province.
brief biography
during the time of his grandfather道綜,the family moved to edo from watarai-cho,ise province.
born as the eldest child to father通寿and mother関岡氏.
from a young age,zoroku adored fuyo ko,who was famous for his tenkoku(seal-engraving),and went to kyoto to become his disciple.
zoroku learned his inho(sealing way)and mastered the heart of philosophy.
afterward,he returned to edo,taught fuyo's tenkoku,which was referred to as the history of japanese seal engraving,and played a leading role.
his tenkoku technique was masterly and especially he was good at making casting seals.
he was also good at mokoku(to engrave letters in order to print on paper)of copybooks printed from the works of old masters of calligraphy,and his mokoku of "白茆帖" by chong wang was praised as brilliant technique.
he was a quiet but social person.
in 1784,fuyo died soon after he went to edo.
zoroku asked kenjo daiten to select an epitaph on the tombstone of fuyo,and tenju kan wrote it,which was engraved by zoroku.
this gravestone was for some reason not built while zoroku was alive,and later okuzan inage and zoroku hamamura the second built it in koishikawa muryo-in shrine in edo.
at present the gravestone is moved to tentoku-ji temple(3-chome,toranomon,minato ward,tokyo[tokyo prefecture]).
died in november 1794 in edo.
died at the age of 61.
his kaimyo(posthumous buddhist names)was称樹院壇誉蔵六大徳.
his grave is located in reizan-ji temple(sumida ward,tokyo prefecture)and zoroku hamamura the second and the third are also buried here.
this gravestone is lost at the time of the great kanto earthquake.
