wani
wani(date of birth and death unknown)is a legendary figure who supposedly came from kudara(paekche)to japan to teach chinese characters and confucianism.
whether or not he really existed is sometimes questioned.
he appears as wani in nihonshoki(chronicles of japan)and as wanikishi in kojiki(the records of ancient matters).
chinese classic books and confucianism
kojiki,nihonshoki,and shoku nihongi(chronicle of japan continued)are the only documents that mention wani.
his description in each document is as follows.
kojiki
according to kojiki,wani was a sage who was offered by kudara.
original:百濟國若有賢人者貢上故受命以貢上人名和邇吉師即論語十卷千字文一卷并十一卷付是人即貢進(此和邇吉師者、文首等祖)
translation:in response to the order(of emperor ojin)to offer a sage if there was any,kudara offered one called wanikishi.
it is said that he was offered along with 10 volumes of rongo analects and 1 volume of senjimon(a poem consisting of one thousand chinese characters)(it is believed that "rongo" and "senjimon," or confucianism and chinese characters,were brought to japan by wani).
note that,however,senjimon had not been compiled yet during the time of wani,and this quite often brings up the question whether or not wani really existed.
there has been a theory that naturalized scholars were made into one figure at the time of kojiki compilation.
nihonshoki
according to "nihonshoki," wani,a scholar,came from kudara in february,285,in response to the recommendation by achiki,a scholar and an envoy of the king of kudara,and also to the invitation by emperor ojin.
he then became a teacher of imperial prince iratsuko ujinowaki and later became naturalized.
'十五年秋八月壬戌朔丁卯百濟王遣阿直岐貢良馬二匹即養於輕阪上廄因以阿直岐令掌飼故號其養馬之處曰廄阪也阿直岐亦能讀經典及太子菟道稚郎子師焉於是天皇問阿直岐曰如勝汝博士亦有耶對曰有王仁者是秀也時遣上毛野君祖荒田別巫別於百濟仍徵王仁也其阿直岐者阿直岐史之始祖也十六年春二月王仁來之則太子菟道稚郎子師之習諸典籍於王仁莫不通達所謂王仁者是書首等始祖也'
shoku nihongi
according to shoku nihongi,imiki fumino,who was shorokuinojo(senior sixth rank,upper grade)sadaishi(first secretary of the left),and mooto told emperor kammu that their ancestor wani was a descendant of the emperor of the han dynasty.
this leads to a theory that wani was from rakuro county(an ancient county that existed in the northern korean peninsula),was a member of a han family that came to kudara,and was a descendent of the emperor of the han dynasty.
if this is true,wani could have been a member of the rakuroo clan that fled to kudara when rakuro county collapsed in 313.
the rakuroo clan that had strong political power throughout the rakuro area is said to have originated in the qi dynasty(shandong province,china)and colonized the mountains in rakuro after escaping from the qi dynasty civil wars in the b.c.170's.
wani probably fled to kudara when rakuro county collapsed in the early third century and immigrated to japan in the later third century.
it was after the time of shiragi(ancient korean kingdom)that people from the korean peninsula started to use chinese-style one-character family names and it is not likely that people from kudara at that time used the family name wan.
for this reason,the theory that wani was a member of the rakuroo clan is plausible.
wani in the republic of korea
the legend of wani did not exist in korea.
it is now known there,but this is because information was imported in modern times.
in south korea,wani is considered as a "korean" who brought his own culture into japan,and government-designated textbooks for junior high school students state that 'wani introduced advanced culture to japan.'
in recent years,the wang-in culture festival has been held annually in yeongam county of south cholla province to commemorate wani who introduced advanced culture to japan(there are also wani-related ruins in south cholla province but they were created after the 1970's,and these are serving as good examples of creation of a legendary site).
note that,however,wani appears only in nihonshoki,kojiki,and shoku nihongi,and none of the historical books in korea such as samguk sagi(history of the three kingdoms)and sangokuiji yusa(an anecdotal history of the three kingdoms in ancient korea)mentions wani or any other person who is identified as wani.
a poem considered to be created by wani introduced in kokin wakashu kanajo(preface of kokinwakashu written in kana by ki no tsurayuki)
a poem supposedly created by wani introduced in kokin wakashu kanajo is not included in hyakunin isshu(one hundred waka poems by one hundred poets)but is designated as a joka to be read at the beginning of a karuta card competition held by the all-japan karuta association.
it is believed that a poet nobutsuna sasaki selected wani's poem as a joka.
in the competition,the wording of the poem is changed to 'ima wo harubeto.'
wanitsuka(the wani tumulus)
whether or not the information below is true is not certain.
hirakata city,osaka prefecture
name:den wani bo(the tomb presumed to be of wani),osaka prefecture designated historic site
site:3-chome,higashi machi,hirakata city,osaka prefecture
details
in 1616,there were two natural stones called ogres' tombs on the mountain of fujisaka.
these two stones were believed to miraculously cure toothaches or fevers.
michitoshi of wada-ji temple of kinya village claimed himself as being a descendent of wani and wrote "wani hunbyoraichoki."
in his writing,he stated that the name oni-bo,or ogres' tombs,in ohakadani,fujisaka village,was a result of heavy accent on wani-bo,or wani's tomb.
in 1731,goichiro namikawa,a confucian scholar from kyoto,claimed based on the abovementioned writing that the natural stone at the center of the graveyard was the tomb of wani,and proposed kugai,the landlord and governor of inaba province,to establish 'dr.wani's tomb.'
in 1937,the head of sugawara mura,kitagawachi gun applied to osaka prefecture for designation of the village as a historic site.
1938,osaka prefecture accepted the application and designated the village as historic site no.13.
osaka city,osaka prefecture
name:ipponmatsu inari daimyojin(inari daimyo-jin god of lone pine tree)(wani daimyo-jin god at yasaka-jinja shrine)
site:3-chome,oyodonaka,kita ward,osaka city(formerly daini machi,oyodo wad)
details:it has been said to be the tomb of wani.
also,there was an area called 'daini' up to the 1960's near wani daimyo-jin,and the name daini is said to come from wani.
south cholla province,korea
name:the wani remains
site:yeongam county,south cholla province郡西面東鳩林里山
details
1968:kim chang soo came to japan.
1970:kim chang soo revisited japan and collected information on wani.
he built the wani research institute.
august,1972:kim chang soo published the "kudara kenjin(the wise man of paekche)dr.wan" series in 15 editions of joong ang daily.
october 19:kim chang soo determined that yeongam county was wani's birthplace based on the information provided by kyo shin ei(chairman of the junior chamber in yeongam county).
february,1973:a field survey was conducted.
kim chang soo published the 'yeongam county as wani's birthplace' theory.
kim chang soo established the 'dr.wani commendation association.'
june,1975:kim chang soo published 'dr.wani:korean spirit that he spread in japan.'
the cholla-namdo education committee held the 'dr.wani remains academic seminar.'
1976:the cholla-namdo education committee produced the report on the investigation of cultural property designation at the wani remains.
south cholla province designated the dr.wani remains as provincial cultural property no.20.
the 'monument of dr.wani's remains' was established in the province.
nirasaki city,yamanashi prefecture
name:wanitsuka(the wani tumulus)in two possible sets of chinese characters
site:kitamiyaji,kamiyama machi,nirasaki city
it is believed to be the tomb of takeda no okimi(prince yamatotakeru's son)and has nothing to do with wani.
