sanjuro seki
"sanjuro seki" is a professional name used by kabuki(a traditional form of drama and music performed by male actors)actors.
the first and the second generations had the yago(stage family name)of harima-ya,and the subsequent generations have used owari-ya as their yago.
sanjuro seki the first
he was very good at wajitsu(a subtle mix of wagotoshi[an actor specialized in roles in the wagoto style,which literally means gentle style]and jitsugotoshi[a wise,righteous and clever man,who appears on stage at the right time to set the record straight,to solve an enigma or foil an evil plot]).
sanjuro seki the second
he was an adopted or a biological son of the first generation.
he was also good at wajitsu as the first generation was.
at the beginning of his career,he learned from kichisaburo arashi the second and called himself sotaro arashi.
in 1802,he changed his name to kasuke nakamura under the tuition of utaemon nakamura the third,and then he succeeded to the name of sanjuro seki the second in november 1805.
his haimyo(a kabuki actor's offstage name which can be used officially and privately)was kazan(歌山).
his yago were harima-ya and owari-ya.
sanjuro seki the third
he was a son of kanbe fujima,a dancer from the fujima school.
sanjuro seki the fourth
he was an adopted son of the third generation.
his childhood name was kasuke,and then he began to use the name of kasuke seki.
he succeeded to the name of yaozo ichikawa the sixth in january 1864,and then he succeeded to the name of sanjuro seki the fourth in march 1873.
his haimyo were chusha ichikawa,kojaku(黄雀),and kazan(歌山).
his yago was owari-ya.
sanjuro seki the fifth
he was a son of the fourth generation.
his childhood name was kasuke,which was the same as the fourth generation's childhood name.
he succeeded to the name of kasuke seki the second in june 1882,and then he succeeded to sanjuro seki the fifth in march 1907.
his haimyo was kazan(歌山).
his yago was owari-ya.
sanjuro seki the sixth
he was a nephew of the fifth generation,and was adopted by the fifth generation afterward.
his yago was owari-ya.
he succeeded to the name of kasuke seki the sixth in march 1928,and he succeeded to sanjuro the sixth in june 1941.
he established the seki sanjuro gekidan(seki sanjuro theater company)after world war ii and they gave performances actively in the provinces.
