haruno okubo
haruno okubo(october 8,1846-january 26,1915)was a military man of imperial japanese army(ija)and a peerage.
he successively worked in different military positions such as chosen chusatsu gun(former kankoku chusatsu gun,army stationed in korea from the beginning of russo-japanese war),the 3rd division of army(japanese army),the 6th division of army(japanese army)and so on.
his rank was army general,ranks and orders,the order of the golden kite,baron.
career
okubo clan was a descendant of emperor kosho in ancient times,which means he was also descendant from wanibenoomi.
in the ancient times,his family called themselves nishio clan.
okubo clan,a lord of odawara domain in soshu,was in the same family.
the okubo family was hereditarily succeeding the position of shinto priest of omikunitama prefectural shrine(iwata city,shizuoka prefecture),one of shikinai-sha(shrine listed in engishiki laws)since the times of ancestors,so his father,tadanao okubo,was also guji(chief of those who serves shrine,controls festivals and general affairs).
haruno was born as the first-born son of tadanao,and departed to the front of boshin war as a member of enshu hokoku-dan(a troop mainly consisted of priesthoods and wealthy farmers in shizuoka prefecture)along with his father.
in may,1870 after meiji restoration,he entered the preparatory school of osaka military school.
in october,he went to france for study,and returned in july,1875.
he was appointed as shusshi(supernumerary government official)in the 7th rank of ministry of army.
in april,1887 he was appointed as infantry army major to be chief of the 5th division in the 2nd office of ministry of army,and in january,1879 moved to the chief of the 1st division in the 2nd office,and in october,to the chief of the infantry division in the personnel office due to the modification in his position name.
in may,1880 he was appointed as daitaicho(chief of battalion)of the 14th infantry regiment of chindai(garrison)in kumamoto,and in december,1882 moved to kansei-kyoku(office that controlled west japan)of staff headquarters.
in 1885,there he moved on to lieutenant colonel,and on july 24,he was appointed as chief of compilation division of staff headquarters and chief of the 3rd division in the 2nd office of staff headquarters concurrently.
on march 19,1886 he moved to the chief of the 12th infantry regiment,and moved on to infantry army general in 1889.
on june 13,1890 he assumed office as principal of toyama military school in succession to koreaki ibaraki on june 15,1891.
on november 24 in the following year,he assumed office as chief staff officer of the 2nd division(japanese army),and in 1894 he was appointed as army major general to be chief of the 7th infantry brigade to depart for the front of sino-japanese war.
in sino-japanese war,he served as commander of garrison targeting the neighborhood of kaijo city as well as commander of garrison targeting the neighborhood of hojo city,and took part in the taiwan expedition that followed,and in december,1897 assumed office as chief of the 1st infantry brigade for imperial guard division.
in 1900,he advanced to lieutenant general in rank,and after serving as general office director of education(later,director of educational general directorial division),on may 5,1902 he was appointed as chief of the 6th division and took part in russo-japanese war under the 2nd army(japanese army).
after battle of saka,he took part in battle of mukden under the 4th army(japanese army).
after the war,he received grand cordon of the order of the rising sun as well as the order of the golden kite in the 2nd class for his achievement on april 1,1906,and on july 6 in the same year,he moved to the chief of the 3rd division,and on september 21,1907 he was given the title of baron to rank with peerage.
on august 7,1908 he moved on to army general,and in december,he assumed office as commander of kankoku chusatsu-gun.
in october,1910 the position name changed to commander of chosen chusatsu-gun due to the annexation of korea.
on october 18,1911 reserve duty.
on january 26,1915,passed away.
given the junii(junior second rank)after a special consideration.
family
his sons-in-law were noburu kanai(professor of tokyo university,the 1st dean of faculty of economics)and hiroshi ichinohe(the 6th-born son of major of army masuyoshi oseki in kurobane domain,an adopted son of army general,hyoe ichinohe).
