fuyuhiro daigo
fuyuhiro daigo(june 12,1679-november 1,1756)was a high-rank court noble in the middle of the edo period.
he mainly served four generations of emperors,emperor higashiyama(the 113th),emperor tsuchimikado(the 113th),emperor sakuramachi(the 114th),and emperor momozono(the 115th),and his official court rank culminated at juichii sadaijin(junior first rank,the minister of the left).
his childhood name was 'funezane' and 'akitada.'
his one character name was 'sho.'
his go(pseudonym)was 'goshinsho fumyoji.'
his father was gon dainagon(provisional chief councilor of state)fuyumoto daigo.
his mother was unknown.
his lawful wife was a daughter of yoshizane so,the lord of the tsushima domain.
his sons included udaijin(minister of the right)tsunetane daigo,and his daughters included the lawful wife of tsunehide oinomikado and the lawful wife of nagatada hirohata.
incidentally,fuyuhiro's father,fuyumoto daigo,was the second son of akiyoshi ichijo who was the ninth imperial prince of emperor goyozei(kobetsu[clans branched out from the imerial family]sekke[line of regents and advisers]).
fuyuhiro,therefore,was one of great-grandchildren of the emperor.
in 1688,he was conferred the rank of jugoinojo(junior fifth rank,upper grade).
in 1696,he was given the rank of jusanmi konoe no chujo(junior third rank,middle captain of the palace guards)and joined the realm of kugyo(high-rank court nobles).
after working as gon chunagon(provisional vice-councilor of state),toka no sechie geben(a kugyo who supervised the event of toka[ceremonial mass singing and stomp dancing]called toka no sechie held at the imperial court on around the fifteenth day of the first month of the year)and uhyoe no kami(captain of the right division of middle palace guards),he was assigned to gon dainagon(provisional chief councilor of state)in 1704.
in 1708,he was appointed as togu gon no daibu(provisional master of the crown prince's quarters)serving crown prince teruhito(later emperor sakuramachi).
upon crown prince's ascendance to the throne in the following year,fuyuhiro stepped down from the post.
in 1711,he was assigned to jingutenso(shrine messenger to emperor),the post which he had maintained for long time until 1726.
in 1724,he was appointed as konoe no daisho(major captain of the palace guards)and umaryo gogen(inspector of the right division of bureau of horses).
in 1727,he served as toka no sechie naiben(a kugyo who supervised inside jomei gate at toka no sechie[imperial court ceremony]).
in 1728,he held the post of naidaijin(minister of the center)but stepped down from the post.
he was given the rank of juichi(junior first rank)in 1729 and assigned to udaijin in 1745,but he resigned from udaijin.
in 1748,he assumed the post of sadaijin(minister of the left)but stepped down from the post in the following year.
