seifu nagamatsu
seifu nagamatsu(also known as nissen,may 16,1817-july 17,1890)was kaido(the founder)of the honmon butsuryu sect.
his religious activities centered on divine grace in this world and attacks on other sects,having a impact on new religious schools within hokke sect in later days.
brief personal history
seifu nagamatsu was born as the eldest son of the owner of a haberdashery shop located in present nakagyo ward,kyoto city in 1817.
for some reason,he grew up in a fatherless family.
afterward he entrusted his elder sister with the family business,and he himself learned confucianism,kokugaku(the study of japanese classical literature),waka(japanese poem)and shodo(calligraphy).
in 1842,his mother died.
this made him decide to become a priest.
at first,he belonged to the jodo sect that family members of his parents' home believed in,but afterward he shifted his religious sect from one to another,such as zen sect,icchi school of the nichiren sect,shingon sect and the tendai sect.
in 1845,he had a chance meeting with zuikoin nichiyu who was inju(the head)of choon-in of honno-ji temple,when he entered the religion of happon school of the nichiren sect(honmon hokke sect in later years).
he studied under daikakuin nikkei,who was kanju(the chief priest)of honno-ji temple,and also under shinkoin nichiyo,who was not only the noge(the president)of okamedani danrin(okamedani academy of buddhism),but also the chief priest of awaji ryusen-ji temple.
in 1848,he became a buddhist monk by getting nichiyo to act as his master.
he had the will to enter the amagasaki danrin(amagasaki academy of buddhism)of honko-ji temple kangakuin,but students of the danrin rejected his entrance,so he returned to kyoto.
then he tried to enter hosokusa danrin(hosokusa academy of buddhism)in kanto region,but kanbe murakami and bakuro murata,both his associate scholars,persuaded him out of entering the academy,so he went to saigyoan(saigyo hermitage)of sorin-ji temple(in kyoto city)and devoted himself to missionary work and ascetic training.
in 1850,he was expelled from sorin-ji temple saigyoan,so thereafter he wandered around kyoto for some years.
in the same year,nichiyo assumed the 47th kanju of myoren-ji temple.
in those days,there existed a creed called the 'sanzu jofu ronso' (the controversy over the practice of religious services to attain nirvana,also known as kaiku ronso)within honmon hokke sect between kaisei school and kuon school,and the contention got heated as the religious association of lay believers storing its power were involved.
at that time,yorikane matsudaira(1809-1868),who was the elder half brother of the lord of the takamatsu clan yoritane matsudaira,an earnest supporter of kuon school and a central figure as a leader of lay believers,felt the indolence of the sect to be deplorable and organized takamatsu happon association by himself and extended its influence over okayama,tokushima,and awaji-shima island.
in 1850,there was an incident whereby nissei(also called shushin)was confuted by yorikane,so shushin asking help from nichinen at sakai kenpon-ji temple and nissho at amagasaki danrin,and meanwhile nikkei at honno-ji temple and nichiyo at myoren-ji temple sided with yorikane.
as a result,a contention broke out and was fought within honmon hokke sect between the side of nichinen and nissho and the side of nikkei and nichiyo.
in 1855,he did the exclaustration.
it was strictly banned for a buddhist monk to live in a merchant house,so he intended not to trouble family members of his parents' home.
in 1856,seeing a lay believer,yorikane,having an argument for the jikkai kuon doctrine against jikkai kaisei doctrine,he sent an epistle to yorikane.
impressed with seifu's argument,yorikane invited seifu to takamatsu city,and seifu took part in shakubuku kyoge(break and subdue,missionary work)in takamatsu.
yorikane and seifu agreed to newly open a religious association in takamatsu and kyoto.
in 1857,he founded the karaku honmon butsuryu association.
in 1862,he built hokke hall of butsuryu-ji temple on mt.chosho in otsu.
in 1868,he was involved in otsu persecution.
in 1869,he was called on to move out of unryuin of honno-ji temple,when he entreated nissei at myoren-ji temple to lease yusei-ji temple,and he made yusei-ji temple the first butsuryu association temple within honmon butsuryu sect.
in 1881,at yusei-ji temple,seifu held a memorial service on the 600th anniversary of nichiren's death.
in 1884,he moved out of yusei-ji temple because of the internal conflict of the butsuryu association.
in 1890,he died in the present moriguchi city,osaka prefecture.
in 1899,honmon hokke sect presented seifu with the honorific title of nissen shonin.
in 1912,he was listed as daisojo(a buddhist priest of the highest order).
