kinmichi ogimachi
kinmichi ogimachi(august 19,1653-august 21,1733)was a kuge(court noble)in the mid-edo period.
he mainly served the two emperors of the emperor reigen(112th)and the emperor higashiyama(113th).
he is known by putting effort to prevail suika shinto(shinto thoughts advocated by ansai yamazaki).
in addition,he was in charge of bukedenso-yaku(an officer who communicated with bakufu,or japanese feudal government headed by a shogun)in the imperial court and worked for the communication between the imperial court and bakufu.
he was given the name shushosai and sushureisha as his go(byname).
his gago(pseudonym)were hakugyokuo and fusuiken.
he was born as the first son of sanetoyo ogimachi,a kuge of gon dainagon(provisional chief councilor of state),in kyoto.
his mother was a daughter of tamekata fujitani,a kuge of gon chunagon(provisional vice-councilor of state).
machiko ogimachi(a concubine of yoshiyasu yanagisawa)was his sister.
he was raised to the peerage in 1658.
in 1661 he was assigned to jiju(a chamberlain)in jugoinojo(junior fifth rank,upper grade)and celebrated his attainment of manhood in 1665.
after that,he was promoted to sangi(councilor)and raised to the peerage as kugyo(the top court officials)through the positions of ukone no shosho(minor captain of the right division of inner palace guards)and ukone no chujo(middle captain of the right division of inner palace guards).
in 1681 he was assigned to gon chunagon in shosanmi(senior third rank)and promoted to junii(junior second rank)in 1685.
through other positions such as geben(a kugyo who supervised many matters outside jomei gate at sechie(imperial court ceremony))in toka no sechie(imperial court ceremony),he was in charge of bukedenso-yaku from 1693 to 1700.
he was in charge of gon dainagon from 1695 to 1696.
it is said that he made a great effort in the unusual investiture of keishoin,a mother of shogun tsunayoshi tokugawa,to juichii(junior first rank)in 1702 from the imperial court because he was asked to lobby senior vassals of the imperial court by yoshiyasu yanagisawa,his brother-in-law.
he was promoted to shonii(senior second rank)in 1705.
in addition,he was promoted to juichii in 1712.
he died on august 21,1733.
he was 81 years old.
he was one of the students of ansai yamazaki,and he made efforts to prevail suika shinto which was founded by ansai in the imperial court.
the suika shinto prevailed by kinmichi was called ogimachi shintoism commonly.
in his later years,he devoted himself to paintings and kyoka(comic(satirical)tanka).
he had six children:the first son kinnari ogimachi and the second son kinryo ogimachi died early,the third son sanemoto uratsuji was adopted by the uratsuji family as a son,the forth son takanobu shijo was adopted by the shijo family,the fifth son sadatoshi nonomiya was adopted by the nonomiya family,so that the youngest son sanetsura ogimachi succeeded the estate of ogimachi family.
