minamoto no yoshitaka(shimizu no kanja)
minamoto no yoshitaka was a busho(japanese military commander)who lived at the end of heian period and belonged to shinano genji(minamoto clan)that follows kawachi genji(minamoto clan).
he took a second name or alias as shimizu no kanja.
he also called himself as yoshitaka kiso.
he was the eldest legitimate son of minamoto no yoshinaka.
his mother was a daughter of nakahara no kaneto.
career
yoshinaka,yoshitaka's father,raised his army in 1183,taking hokuriku no miya who was a bereaved child of prince mochihito as the master,and expanded his influence mainly in shinano province,which posed a conflict against minamoto no yoritomo who also belonged to the minamoto clan.
in addition,with the fact that yoshinaka had been protecting minamoto no yoshihiro(shida saburo senjo)and minamoto no yukiie,who were both his uncles,he was about to fight against yoritomo in march.
however,the compromise that yoshinaka would send his eldest son yoshitaka who was eleven as a hostage to yoritomo in kamakura was reached between the two parties.
yoshitaka went to kamakura with yukiuji unno and shigetaka mochizuki,the young people of noble family on the pretext that yoshitaka would marry ohime,yoritomo's daughter.
in july 1183,yoshinaka won the battle against the taira clan and entered kyoto(the ancient capital of japan).
but yoshinaka failed to govern the capital and conflicted with emperor goshirakawa.
yoritomo sent the army of minamoto no noriyori and minamoto no yoshitsune as the chief commanders to search and kill yoshinaka.
yoshinaka lost in the battle of uji-gawa river in january 1184 and was killed in awazu,omi province.
the situation of yoshitaka who had been as a hostage in kamakura deteriorated with his father's death.
ohime learned the fact that her father yoritomo was going to kill yoshitaka and tried to let him get away secretly on april 21,.
yukiuji unno,who was same age as yoshitaka and a close associate and would often play sugoroku(japanese backgammon)with him,disguised himself as yoshitaka.
yoshitaka who disguised himself as a nyobo(noble lady)got away from his residence surrounded by waiting women,and he escaped from kamakura on the horse ohime arranged.
the plan was discovered in the evening,infuriated yoritomo caught yukiuji and ordered chikaie hori to send an army and kill yoshitaka.
yoshitaka was caught in musashi province by the pursuers on april 26 and killed by mitsuzumi tonai,one of the roto(retainer)of chikaie.
his age at death was 12.
on may 1,a large scale of army was sent to shinano province on the pretext that yoshitaka's remnants(of defeated army)were hiding in kai and shinano province and were planning a rebellion.
ohime,who knew yoshitaka's death,was distressed and became sick in bed.
ohime's mother masako hojo became infuriated,saying that it was because yoshitaka had been killed that ohime got sick,and complained strongly to her husband yoritomo that the incident was caused by his vassals.
on june 27 mitsuzumi tonai was beheaded and his head was on public display.
there is a tsuka(burial mound)that has been passed down as the grave of yoshitaka(kisozuka)at joraku-ji temple in kamakura city,kanagawa prefecture.
yukiuji unno served yoritomo as gokenin(an immediate vassal of the shogunate in the kamakura and muromachi through edo periods)of kamakura bakufu(japanese feudal government headed by a shogun)after the incident.
