taira no korehira
taira no korehira(year of birth and death unknown)was a busho(a japanese military commander)during the heian period.
he was the fourth son of taira no sadamori.
he had three sons,taira no masanori,taira no masazumi,and taira no masasuke.
his official court rank included jushiinojo(junior fourth rank,upper grade),governor of shimotsuke province,governor of ise province,assistant governor of kozuke province,and assistant governor of hitachi province.
he established his foundation in ise province and became the father of the ise-heishi(the taira clan).
in 998,korehira was in the post of governor of shimotsuke province as kokushi of yonin(a provincial governor residing in the capital);however,he fought at kamikori(the precincts of a shinto shrine)in ise province against taira no muneyori,who belonged to the same clan as korehira and was also korehira's second cousin.
later,both korehira and muneyori were brought to the imperial court for a hearing,and korehira submitted kajo(a letter of appology)and was transferred to awaji province.
before long,korehira was called back to the imperial court and recommended to the position of governor of ise province by udaijin(minister of the right)fujiwara no akimitsu at the jimoku(a ceremony for appointing officials)on march 6,1006.
however,sadaijin(minister of the left)fujiwara no michinaga strongly opposed the recommendation because korehira fought against muneyori,who belonged to the same family as korehira,over the hegemony in ise province several times over the years.
therefore,the official in charge did not finish the paper work necessary for his appointment;however,korehira's name was somehow added to the list of appointees by mistake,a fair copy was created,and the copy was reported to the emperor.
since the fair copy without correction was approved officially by the emperor,michinaga had no choice but accepting korehira's appointment.
however,korehira was removed from his position as govenor of ise province after only two months since there was such disfavor concerning his appointment.
later,korehira successively held positions as assistant governor of kozuke province and assistant governor of hitachi province from 1012 to 1023.
his age at death is unknown;however,the "sonpi bunmyaku" (a japanese genealogical text)determined that he died at the age of 85.
the "jikkinsho" (a collection of anecdotes in future generations)described him as an excellent samurai as well as minamoto no yorinobu,fujiwara no yasumasa,and taira no muneyori.
the "jikkinsho" mentioned if four of these people ended up fighting each other,korehira would certainly lose his life.
furthermore,the fight in ise province continued even into their son's generation(masasuke,korehira's son,and taira no munetsune,muneyori's son).
however,the hegemony by korehira's group was established and developed into the ise-heishi after munetsune became a priest at yokawa on mt.hiei and died in 1023.
later,taira no kiyomori came from the lineage of this clan and built the golden age.
