ishikawa no iwatari
ishikawa no iwatari(born in 667 and died in 729)was a man of noble ancestry from the late asuka period to the early nara period.
he was a great-great-grandson of soga no umako.
he was a son of shonagon(minor councilor of state),soga no yasumaro.
his official rank was jusanmi(junior third rank),sangi(councilor).
summary
in 686,he received the name,ishikawa ason(the second highest of the eight hereditary titles).
his aunt,shoshi married fujiwara no fuhito who rose to prominence immediately after that and had four sons.
among her sons,fujiwara no muchimaro,fujiwara no fusasaki,fujiwara no umakai were his cousins.
therefore,he helped them establish the administration controlled by four brothers of the fujiwara clan.
in fact,in the event of nagayao no hen(conspiracy of nagayao),he visited nagayao's residence as a messenger.
however,the glory of the soga clan had already faded because of involvement in isshi no hen(the assassination of soga no iruka to eliminate the soga clan)and jinshin war.
so,it was as late as the age of 41 when he received the first official rank shogoinojo(senior fifith rank).
after that,he finally rose to the official rank of jusanmi(junior third rank),gon sangi(deputy councilor)at the age of 62,but he died on september 10 immediately after the promotion.
afterward,the ishikawa clan survived as the middle noble class for some time
record of official ranks
on april 12,708,he became kawachi no kami(the governor of kawachi province).
on may 5,708,he received the official rank of shogoinojo(senior fifth rank,upper grade).
on january 29,714,he rose to the official rank of jushiinoge(junior fourth rank,lower grade).
on february 10,719,he rose to the official rank of jushiinojo(junior fourth rank,upper grade).
on november 17,720,he rose to the official rank of sadaiben(major controller of the left).
on july 25,721,he rose to the official rank of dazai no daini(senior assistant governor general of the dazai-fu).
on february 23,723,he rose to the official rank of shoshiinoge(senior fourth rank,lower grade).
on july 28,728,he rose to the official rank of shoshiinojo(senior fourth rank,upper grade).
on march 19,729,he became gon sangi(deputy councilor).
on april 20,729,he rose to the official rank of jusanmi(junior third rank).
on september 10,729,he died.
