fujiwara no nariko
fujiwara no nariko(1117-december 29,1160)was a "kokubo" (an empress dowager)in the late heian period.
she was the empress in the court ruled by emperor toba,and was "nyoin",a woman bestowed with the title "in".
she was born in the fujiwara clan sueshige school(a descendant of fujiwara no uona)and was a granddaughter of rokujo daibu fujiwara no akisue(1055-1123).
she was a daughter of chunagon daijodaijin(grand minister of state)fujiwara no nagazane and minamoto no masako,a daughter of sadaijin(minister of the left)minamoto no toshifusa.
her ingo,a title of respect given to close female relatives of the emperor or a woman of comparable standing,was bifukumon-in.
biography
she is reported to have been unprecedentedly beautiful.
the retired emperor toba married her in about 1134 and was deeply in love with her.
she gave birth to imperial princesses eishi and akiko(akiko was also called hachijo-in),and finally to imperial prince narihito(the seventy-sixth japanese emperor,emperor konoe)on june 23,1139.
toba-in had prince narihito become crown prince for emperor sutoku,the emperor at that time,on september 25 of the same year,forced emperor sutoku to abdicate from the crown on january 12,1142,and let emperor konoe assume the throne.
nariko became "nyogo" (a court title given to a consort of the emperor)as narihito's togu sakuritsu(formal decision of crown prince)took effect,and in the year when konoe was appointed emperor,she became kisainomiya because she was the kokubo(mother of emperor konoe);furthermore,on september 13,1149,she was given an ingo bifukumon-in,and gained more power than fujiwara no shoshi(taikenmon-in),whom cloistered emperor toba had earlier decided to formally appoint chugu(emperor's wife).
emperor konoe was inclined to ill health and finally experienced premature death on august 29,1155.
bifukumon-in had two adopted sons,both of whom she had been nursing since they were babies in arms;one was imperial prince shigehito,the first son of the retired emperor sutoku,and the other was prince morihito(the seventy-eighth japanese emperor,emperor nijo),the first son of imperial prince masahito(the seventy-seventh japanese emperor,emperor goshirakawa),who was a younger brother of the retired emperor sutoku.
the latter of the two adopted sons was decided to become a priest under the auspices of cloisterd imperial prince kakusho in ninna-ji temple,imperial prince shigehito was thought to assume the throne.
however,bifukumon-in and the cloistered emperor toba expressed deep resentment when they heard a rumor that emperor konoe died because of a curse by the retired emperor sutoku,fujiwara no tadazane,and his son fujiwara no yorinaga.
therefore,the cloistered emperor toba had his fourth son,imperial prince masahito(emperor goshirakawa),assume the throne.
the cloistered emperor was thought to have intended to call off the enthronement of imperial prince shigehito and to support prince morihito(emperor nijo);and thereafter,a marriage of prince morihito and imperial princess shushi,the youngest daughter of the cloistered emperor(and her mother was bifukumon-in),was arranged.
in the military epic "the tale of hogen",bifukumon-in was reported to have encouraged the cloistered emperor toba to have imperial prince masahito assume the throne,and this story is quite popular;however,other records of that date as well as history books,including "gukansho" and "imakagami," indicate that succession to the imperial throne of emperor konoe was decided mainly by the cloistered emperor toba and fujiwara no tadamichi;therefore,although such records suggest that the imperial succession was pursued in consideration of her grief,there is no evidence that supports the idea that she was directly involved in the decision of the imperial succession.
in this way,the retired emperor sutoku,who became frustrated after having been excluded from the decision of the imperial succession,became associated with yorinaga,who was kept at a distance from the cloistered emperor toba by bifukumon-in,and with yorinaga's father tadazane;and the hogen war broke out immediately after the demise of toba-in on august 2,1156.
although bifukumon-in had already become a nun,she showed very good strategic abilities in this war;i.e.,she summoned even taira no kiyomori and his brother,whose names were not given in the last words of the cloistered emperor toba because their mother was the nursemaid of imperial prince shigehito,and finally led emperor goshirakawa's part to victory.
thereafter,she withdrew from the front stage of history and followed up the enthronement of emperor nijo as well as the ending of the heiji war;then she died at the age of 44 in the kongoshoin imperial palace on december 29,1160.
her cremains were duly entombed in mount koya in accordance with her last words(at that time a quarrel was raised at mount koya,as it was "nyoninkinzei" (mountain closed to woman to avoid interfering with monks' training).
a drawing of bifukumon-in has been handed down in anrakuju-in temple(which was set up by toba-in)in which the mausoleum of emperor konoe lies.
she is also said to be the model for "hakumenkonmokyubi no kitsune" (a fox with a white face,a golden feather,and nine tails) "tamamonomae",the leading character in the legendary story "sesshoseki" (murder stone).
