taira no korenori
taira no korenori(855-november 3,909)was a noble in the early heian period.
he was the third son of taira no takamune(prince takamune)and a great-grandson of emperor kanmu.
his mother was fujiwara no ariko,who held the rank of jushiijo(junior fourth rank,upper grade)and the title of jiju(a chamberlain)and was the daughter of fujiwara no nagara,who held the title of zo daijo daijin(the grand minister,posthumously conferred).
his wife was the daughter of imperial prince saneyasu.
his children included taira no tokimochi and taira no koremochi.
career
february 18,874:he was awarded the rank of jugoinoge(junior fifth rank,lower grade).
january 20,875:he was appointed to kurodo(chamberlain).
september 22,875:he was appointed to assistant master of the empress dowager's household(fujiwara no akirakeiko-some dono no kisaki-the daughter of fujiwara no yoshifusa,who held the title of sessho/regent).
january 2,878:he rose to the rank of jugoinojo(junior fifth rank,upper grade).
retained his position as kotaigogu no suke.
march 15,879:he was appointed to work in bingo province.
february 28,880:he was appointed to work in bizen province.
resigned as bingo gon no suke(provisional assistant governor of bingo province).
may 31:he rose to the rank of shogoinoge(senior fifth rank,lower grade).
retained his positions as kotaigogu no suke and bizen gon no suke.
february 2,882:as the empress dowager fujiwara no akirakeiko became the grand empress dowager,the previous retired emperors' wife fujiwara no takaiko(the daughter of fujiwara no nagara who held the title of zo daijo daijin)became an empress dowager.
february 18,886:he rose to the rank of jushiinoge(junior fourth rank,lower grade).
retained his positions as kotaigogu no suke and bizen gon no suke.
march 19,887:he served concurrently at minbusho(ministry of popular affairs).
june 12:he served concurrently on danjodai(board of censors).
left the office of minbu taifu(senior assistant minister of popular affairs).
february 15,890:he served concurrently in shikibu-sho(the ministry of ceremonial).
april 9,893:he was appointed to work in higo province.
february 20,894:he rose to the rank of jushiijo(junior fourth rank,upper grade).
retained his positions as kotaigogu no suke,shikibu no taifu(senior assistant minister of the ministry of ceremonial),danjo-daihitsu(senior assistant president of the board of censors),and higo no gon no kami(provisional governor of higo province).
july 2,897:he was transferred to the ministry of finance.
july 26:he served concurrently as taikotaigogu gon no daibu(provisional master of the household of grand empress dowager,the aforementioned fujiwara no akirakeiko).
march 13,902:he served concurrently as sangi(councillor).
retained his positions as okura-kyo(minister of the treasury).
march 22,903:he was appointed to work in harima province.
february 1,904:he rose to the rank of shoshiinoge(senior fourth rank,lower grade).
retained his positions as sangi,okura-kyo,and harima no gon no kami(provisional governor of harima province).
february 12,906:he was reappointed to work in harima province.
march 4,907:he served concurrently as emonfu(headquarters of the outer palace guards).
resigned as okura-kyo and harima no gon no kami.
february 25,908:he rose to the rank of jusanmi(junior third rank).
he was transferred to the office of chunagon(vice-councilor of state).
he served concurrently as emonfu.
april 13:he served concurrently as kebiishi no betto(superintendent of the imperial police).
september 29(or october 1):he served concurrently as minbusho.
resigned as kebiishi no betto and sahyoe no kami(captain of the left division of middle palace guards).
may 19,909:he served concurrently as konoefu(the headquarters of the inner palace guards).
he resigned as minbukyo(minister of popular affairs).
november 8:he died.
he died at the age of 55.
