yoshizane nijo
yoshizane nijo(1216-january 18,1271)was a court noble who lived during the mid kamakura period.
his father was michiie kujo(yoshizane was his second son).
his mother was a daughter of kintsune saionji.
yoshizane was the ancestor of the nijo family which was one of the go-sekke(the five regent houses).
since his father and maternal grandfather were powerful men in the imperial court,he was given the rank of jusanmi(junior third rank)at the age of just 15.
he assumed the position of naidaijin(minister).
however,his father,michiie didn't favor yoshizane and instead showed favor to his brother,sanetsune ichijo
but,his grandfather,kintsune who was a kanto moshitsugi(a liaison with the east),held greater power than michiie,thus he was assigned to serve as a kanpaku(a chief advisor to the emperor)at kintsune's recommendation in 1242 when emperor gosaga ascended the throne.
however,when kintsune died of illness,michiie took over the imperial court.
therefore,he was forced to transfer the position of kanpaku to sanetsune by his father's command in january 1246.
in the same year,mitsutoki nagoe raised a rebellion against tokiyori hojo having yoritsune kujo(michiie's son)and yoritsune was deported to kyoto,after which the father,michiie had to leave the imperial court,and sanetsune was dismissed from the post of kanpaku.
but yoshizane wasn't subject to punishment by tokiyori since he was alienated from his father,thus michiie doubted whether yoshizane held secret communication with tokiyori and humbled them and renounced yoshitsune.
however,yoshizane regained his power and recaptured the position of kanpaku in 1261.
after he transferred the position of kanpaku to yoshitsune nijo in 1265,he still took over the imperial court as a nairan(private audience).
on november 11,1270,he entered the priesthood due to illness and called himself gyoku,but he died on november 29 at the age of 55.
his hogo(posthumous buddhist name)was fukoonin.
since yoshizane was located in nijo-kyogoku-tei,the ancestry which evolved from yoshizane and came to be named the nijo family was counted among the go-sekke.
career
lunar calender used for the dates.
january 9,1226,went through genpuku(ceremony of attaining manhood)and given the rank of shogoinoge(senior fifth rank,lower grade).
january 12,assigned to serve as a jiju(chamberlain).
february 20,1227,transferred to the position of ukone no shosho(minor captain of the right division of inner palace guards).
february 9,1228,transferred to the position of ukone no chujo(middle captain of the right division of inner palace guards).
february 18,1228,promoted to the rank of jushiinoge(junior fourth rank,lower grade)and retained his position as ukonoe no chujo.
march 15,also assumed the position of harima no suke.
february 26,1229,promoted to the rank of shoshiinoge(senior fourth rank,lower grade)and retained his position as ukonoe no chujo.
november 23,promoted to the rank of jusanmi(junior third rank)and retained his position as ukonoe no chujo.
february 15,1230,also assumed the position of iyo gon no kami(director of iyo province).
march 30,promoted to the rank of shosanmi(senior third rank)and retained his position as ukonoe no chujo and iyo gon no kami.
april 16,1231,promoted to the rank of junii(junior second rank)and retained his position as ukonoe no chujo and iyo gon no kami.
may 5,transferred to the position of gon chunagon(provisional middle councillor)and retained his position as ukonoe no chujo.
june 8,promoted to the rank of shonii(senior second rank)and retained his position as gon chunagon and ukonoe no chujo.
november 30,also assumed the position of togu(imperial prince mitsuhito,latter-day emperor shijo)gon no daifu.
november 24,1232,left the position of togu gon no daifu.
(due to the accession of imperial prince mitsuhito)
may 25,1233,also assumed the position of sakone no daisho(major captain of the left division of inner palace guards).
left the position of ukonoe chujo.
july 10,1235,transferred to the position of gon dainagon(provisional major counselor)and retained his position as sakonoe no taisho.
november 20,transferred to the position of naidaijin.
november 21,retained his position as sakonoe no taisho.
july 20,1236,promoted to the rank of juichii(junior first rank)and transferred to the position of udaijin(minister of the right).
retained his position as sakonoe no taisho.
february 19,1238,resigned from the position of sakonoe no taisho.
september 11,transferred to the position of sadaijin(minister of the left).
february 28,1242,assigned to serve as kanpaku by the emperor.
assigned to serve as fujiwarashi choja by the emperor.
retained his position as sadaijin.
july 14,1244,resigned from the position of sadaijin.
february 22,1246,resigned from the position of kanpaku.
june 5,1261,reassigned to serve as kanpaku by the emperor.
may 12,1265,resigned from the position of kanpaku.
september 4,assigned to serve as nairan by the emperor.
february 6,1269,resigned from the position of nairan.
december 31,1270,entered the priesthood and called himself gyoku.
january 18,1271 died.
