senzaburo suzuki
senzaburo suzuki(born on may 10,1893 and passed away on october 6,1924)was a japanese playwrite and editor.
his pen names include toshimaya-shujin and misaburo izu.
personal profile
senzaburo was born in aoyama,akasaka ward,tokyo city(on may 10,1893(minato ward,tokyo)(present day,kita-aoyama or minami-aoyama,minato-ward,tokyo prefecture).
after graduating from yotsuya second elementary school under the old education system(present day,yotsuya sixth elementary school of shinjuku ward),which was located in samon-cho,yotsuya ward(present day,samon-cho,shinjuku ward),he was employed at yotsuya bank;he also enrolled in the evening class at okura commercial school under the old education system(present day,tokyo keizai university),which was located in 3-chome,samon-cho,yotsuya ward(present day,2-chome,toranomon,minato-ward),and graduated.
after graduation,he studied at 'kokumin eigakkai' (national english association)located in 3-chome,nishiki-cho,kanda ward,tokyo city(present day,kandanishiki-cho,chiyoda ward).
he became the writer,yoshu mizuno's disciple and,in 1913,at the age of 20,he was selected at a prize-winning drama competition sponsored by k.k.mitsukoshi gofukuten(present day,mitsukoshi).
his talent was acknowledged by shoyo matsui(later known as sho matsui)and upon matui's recommendation,became deciple to okamura.
in 1914,senzaburo was employed by kyoto fire insurance(one of the predecessors to present nissei dowa).
in 1916,around age 23,he resigned from the company at the advice of shiko okamura and started working for 'genbunsha',the publishing company run by itokochoen,a cosmetics maker;there,he worked as an editor for the magazine, "shinengei," under chief editor okamura.
during this time,senzaburo wrote plays including "yawataya's daughter,""rashamen(a mistress of a white man)'s father," and "the death of a beautiful fool."
he married in 1919.
he became ill in 1922,and became bedridden.
in february 1923, "jirokichi-zange(jirokichi's repentance),"starring the sixth kikugoro onoe,became very popular.
on september 1,1923,tokyo was destroyed completely by the great kanto earthquake and gentosha was dissolved.
on october 6,1924,senzaburo passed away at kochiyokuchi,oiso-machi,naka county,kanagawa prefecture(present day,oiso,naka county,kanagawa prefecutre),where he lived temporarily for medical treatment.
he passed away at the age of 31.
in august,1924,before his death,senzaburo wrote his last work, "koheiji,who is alive," on "engeki-shincho" (bungeishunju ltd.),which is recognized as his defining work,and also as a masterpiece in the history of modern plays.
his works are considered as accurate portrayals of human nature,despite their nihilistic and eerie atmosphere.
all of his works were adopted for screen;
