kaneyasu senoo
kaneyasu senoo(1123-november 28,1183)was a busho(japanese military commander)who lived during the last days of heian period and who was on the side of the taira clan.
his name is also written as瀬尾兼康(usually his name is written as妹尾兼康).
his azana(adult male's nickname)was taro.
career
according to one theory,he was an illegitimate child of emperor shirakawa or emperor toba.
from early years he served the taira clan,and his name is recorded as a servant of the heike family in literature such as "hogen monogatari" (the tale of the hogen war), "heiji monogatari" (the tale of the heiji),and "heike monogatari" (the tale of the taira clan).
in 1180,he was entrusted to suppress armed priests who rose in revolt in nara,but since the men in his army were prohibited from fully equipping themselves,many were killed and wounded.
this led to the fire of the southern capital by taira no shigehira and others which took place later.
then during the battle of the kurikara pass in 1183,he joined the war by taking the side of the taira family;however,he was defeated by minamoto no yoshinaka's army and became their captive.
however,while in bizen province he escaped,killed nariuji kuramitsu who was on the watch,gathered 2,000 soldiers with whom he barricaded himself in a fortress in sasanosemari(a watershed area along sasagase-gawa river),fukuryu-ji nawate,and rose in revolt against yoshinaka.
although he fought bravely and killed nariuji's elder brother narizumi kuramitsu,here he was defeated again and took flight.
later,he returned to help his legitimate child muneyasu senoo who was too fat to move by himself;however,he was killed near itakura station in bicchu province(present-day soia city,okayama prefecture).
yoshinaka minamoto said of kaneyasu as follows:
"brave and strong man is he."
"he is what one calls ikkitosen(one who can fight against a thousand men)soldier".
heike nyogoga shima(the taira clan and the island of women)
in heike nyogoga shima,which is a piece of ningyo joruri(traditional japanese puppet theater)by monzaemon chikamatsu,kaneyasu senoo appears as akuyaku(villain's role)in the second-stage titled "shunkan" (after a priest named shunkan).
