kiyonori konakamura
kiyonori konakamura(january 22,1822-october 11,1895)was a scholar of japanese classical literature and historian.
his original surname was ki,the lineage of ki clan.
his childhood names was einosuke,kinshiro,kinemon,and shoso.
his pseudonym was yasumuro.
biography
at the end of the year 1821,he was born in koji-machi,edo(present chiyoda ward,tokyo prefecture).
his father was jirohachi harada,and his mother was miyo.
as his parents died early,he was fostered by his mother's younger sister and took over the konakamura family.
the konakamura family,whose origin was the family which produced shinto priests at iwashimizu hachiman-gu shrine,had left kyoto to edo to do commercial business.
in 1834,he changed his name to kiyonori.
after his adoptive father's death,while he succeeded to the family business,he learned under kaizan horikoshi,sekisai okitama(置賜晰斎),rankei nishijima,rokuuemon nakamura,okoku kameda,hidenori ino,and others.
in 1852,he handed over the family business to the second son,bunjiro,and concentrated in academic learning.
in 1855,he became a discipline of uchitoo motoori.
in 1857,he became a professor at kogakukan academy of ancient learning)of wakayama domain,and in 1862 he became a lecturer at wagaku-kodansho(institute of national learning)of edo bakufu(japanese feudal government headed by a shogun).
in 1869,he served the government as dajokan(great council of state)and also took the post of daigaku chujokyo(middle assistant professor of higher education).
he was engaged in the investigation of dajokan system.
after holding the position of jingikan jingigon no taishi,jingidaishi,jingidairoku,and kyobusho(ministry of religion)kyobudairoku,in 1878 he became a lecturer at the university of tokyo and goyogakari(a general affaires official of the imperial household)at shushikan(a national institute established to compile the official japanese history).
in 1879 he was engaged in the compilation of "kojiruien" (an encyclopedia of ancient literatures),in 1882 he became a professor at the tokyo university as well as a member of the tokyo gakushiin(tokyo academy),and in addition,he was appointed to be the chairperson of the editorial committee of "kojiruien."
in 1888 he received doctorate in literature,and he was appointed as torishirabegakari(a researcher)of the department of the imperial household system,in 1890 he was selected as a member of the house of peers by the imperial command,and in 1893 he became a member of the evaluation subcommittee of the national code research committee.
he died in 1895 at the age of 75.
after his death,he was raised to shogoi(senior fifth rank)
his grave is found at tennoji cemetery in yanaka,tokyo.
he was the adoptive father of the scholar of japanese literature,yoshikata ikebe(he later recovered his original surname 'ikebe').
