yoshihide isshiki
yoshihide isshiki(?-june 18,1498)was a shugo daimyo(shugo,which were japanese provincial military governors,that became daimyo,which were japanese feudal lords)who lived in the latter of the muromachi period.
he was the second son of yoshinao isshiki.
goro.
he was the shugo(a provincial constable)of tango province.
according to the "inryoken nichiroku" (dietary life of zen priests),he was admitted to the priesthood initially and called 'shugijisha' ("jisha" means "an attendant who serves the chief priest").
in 1484,when his elder brother,named yoshiharu isshiki,died suddenly,he was suddenly called upon to succeed him as head of the isshiki clan.
since he was still young,however,his father,yoshinao isshiki,assumed the position of the shugo of tango province on this occasion.
in august 1486,his father yoshinao lost his fief of obama in wakasa province due to the imperial court's intervention,and this place was given to kuninobu takeda,who was the shugo of this province.
this made yoshinao angry and he immediately went away from the capital into tango province,and he did not even join in the suppression of takayori rokkaku,which was carried out by yoshihisa ashikaga in the following year(in 1487).
yoshihide is the one who went up to the capital to join in the camp instead of yoshinao.
it is said that he declared himself 'yoshihide' upon arriving in the capital.
in 1493,once jirosaemon iga raised a rebellion in tango province,his father yoshinao,who was in the capital at that moment,also left there for tango province due to this urgent news,and it is said that the father and the son worked together to suppress the rebellion.
after that,rebellions by kunishu(local samurais)occurred repeatedly in tango province,and yoshihide eventually killed himself in mt.fuko in tango province on june 18,1498,during an attack from the kunishu.
his age at death is unknown.
he called himself saizenjidono.
after his death,the genealogy of the isshiki clan as the shugo of tango province is unclear.
