mototoyo hirohata
mototoyo hirohata(may 15,1800-june 20,1857)was a court noble during the late edo period.
he mainly served three successive emperors,emperor kokaku(the 119th emperor),emperor ninko(the 120th emperor),and emperor komei(the 121st emperor).
the highest official rank he achieved was juichii(junior 1st rank)naidaijin(minister of the center).
his father was naidaijin(minister of the center)tsunetoyo hirohata..
his mother was the daughter of dainagon(chief councilor of state)suketsune hino(adopted daughter of naidaijin(minister of the center),sanetane imadegawa).
his wife was masahiro takatsukasa's daughter,koko.
a member of kizokuin(the house of peers)marquis tadaaya hirohata and tsuneie minase were his sons,and princess eihime(yoshiatsu tokugawa's wife)and takahira shijo's wife were his daughters.
in 1802 he was conferred peerage.
for a head of the seiga family,his promotion was rapid,and in 1813 he was raised to jusanmi(junior 3rd rank)and admitted as one of kugyo(top court officials).
after holding the positions of chunagon(vice-chief councilor of state),toka no sechie geben(a kugyo who supervised many matters outside jomei gate at toka no sechie-imperial court ceremonies),dainagon(chief councilor of state),toka no sechie naiben(a kugyo who supervised many matters inside jomei gate at toka no sechie(imperial court ceremony,that took place on may 16)and others,and he was appointed to kotaigogu no daibu(master of the empress dowager's household)to yasuko takatsukasa,who became empress dowager in 1847.
in 1849 he became ukone no daisho(major captain of the right division of inner palace guards)and umaryo gogen(inspector of the right division of bureau of horses).
at the time of emperor komei's departure from the capital in 1855,he escorted the emperor,forming a entourage made up of two ikai(stablemen),six zuishin(guards),two midera(見寺),a tonericho(chief of stableman),eight umazoi(horse attendants),and one kasamochi(umbrella bearer).
he was raised to juichii(junior 1st rank)naidaijin(minister of the center)in 1857,but he died in the same year.
