inbe no kobito
inbe no kobito(year of birth unknown-(old calendar)march 15th,719)was a person of the asuka period in japan.
his surname can also be read as 'imibe' or 'imube.'
his name can either be written as '子首'or '首'in chinese characters and be read as 'kobito,' 'kobito,' or 'obito' as well.
the reading of the name does not change when the old japanese syllabary characters are used.
his kabane(hereditary title)was kobito,which became muraji,and later on as sukune.
during the jinshin war in 672,he sided with prince oama(emperor tenmu)and protected wakyo.
in 682,he became one of the compiling members of teiki(genealogy of the imperial family)and joko shoji(matters of high antiquity),and together with nakatomi no oshima,played at least a central role in the compilation in the initial stages.
posthumously,in 720,the compilation took the final form as "the nihonshoki."
during the era of monmu,he was promoted to goi(fifth rank),and in 702,he made an offering to ise-jingu shrine and became the director of izumo province by 710.
he was ranked as jushiinoge(junior fourth rank,lower grade).
achievements
during the jinshin war in 672,otomo no hukei sided with prince oama and raised an army in the wa province(yamato province),and first seized wakyo(the city in yamato),then proceeded north with the army.
wakyo was an old city of asuka located in the wa province(yamato province),serving as the counterpart to ominomiya imperial house.
in the middle of the march on july 3rd,arato no akamaro advised hukei to strengthen the defensive lines of the old city(wakyo),which is where the headquarter was located.
hukei then dispatched akamaro and inbe no kobito to defend the old city.
by breaking off the boards of the road,akamaro and others turned them into shields and erected them at the intersection.
ono no hatayasu who was proceeding south by having defeated hukei's army on the fourth,surveyed the old city from a high point in yaguchi.
discovering that shields were erected at every city bloc,hatayasu left,suspecting an ambush.
no other roles performed by kobito are found in "the nihonshoki."
on january 8th,681,inbe no kobito was conferred the kabane of muraji.
kobito and his brother shikobuchi(inbe no shikofuchi)happily bowed down to the emperor.
on march 17th,682,the emperor ordered the compilation of matters contained in teiki and joko at the taianden hall.
the name of shokinchu(the 11th rank out the 26th hierarchical ranking system)inbe no muraji kobito can be found among the six royal family members and six other government officials who participated in the compilation.
it is noted with emphasis that inbe no kobito and nakatomi no oshima took up the writing process by themselves,making it clear that they were the central composers of the chronicles.
on march 17th,682,the emperor ordered the compilation of matters contained in teiki and joko at the taianden hall.
on december 2nd,684,inbe no muraji as well as 50 other clans with the muraji title were granted the kabane of sukune.
on march 8th,702,inbe no sukune kobito was promoted to jugoinojo(junior fifth rank,upper grade)from jugoinoge(junior fifth rank,lower grade);from then on he kept being promoted up the court ranks.
on november 8th,704,jugoinojo inbe no sukune kobito was dispatched to isetaijingu(ise-jingu shrine)and offered heihaku,ho-kyo mirror and窠子錦(kashinishiki).
on march 13th,710,shogoinoge(senior fifth rank,lower grade)inbe no sukune kobito became the director of izumo province.
in july 15th,719,sani jushiinoyo(junior fourth rank,upper grade,courtier without post)inbe no sukune kobito died.
it was on may 21st of the next year,when imperial prince toneri announced the completion of "the nihonshoki."
chronological list of the main events
on july 3rd,672,inbe no kobito defended the old city along with aratao no akamaro.
on january 8th,681,inbe no kobito was granted the kabane of muraji.
on march 17th,682,inbe no muraji kobito and others were given the order to compile materials contained in teiki and joko.
he was ranked as shokinchu(the 11th rank out of the 26th hierarchical ranking system).
on december 2nd,684,inbe muraji was given the kabane of sukune.
on march 8th,702,inbe no sukune kobito was promoted to jugoinojo(junior fifth rank,lower grade)from jugoinoge.
on november 8th,704,inbe no sukune kobito gave offerings to ise-jingu shrine.
on march 13th,710,inbe no sukune kobito was appointed as the director of izumo province.
his official court rank was shogoinoge(senior fifth rank,lower grade).
on april 7th,711,inbe no sukune kobito was promoted to shogoinojo(senior fifth rank,upper grade).
on january 5th,714,inbe no sukune kobito was promoted to jushiinoge(junior fourth rank,lower grade).
on january 5th,718,inbe no sukune kobito was promoted to jushiinojo(junior fourth rank,upper grade).
on july 15th,719,sani jushinojo(junior fourth rank,upper grade,courtier without post)inbe no sukune kobito died.
