akinori isshiki
akinori isshiki(1340-july 1,1406)is a busho(japanese military commander)of the period of the northern and southern courts(japan)and the early muromachi period.
he was the son of norimitsu isshiki.
he was the father of mitsunori isshiki.
his government post was uma no kami(captain of the right division of bureau of horses).
he also held the title of sakyo no daibu(master of the eastern capital offices).
and hyobu shoyu(junior assistant minister of the hyobusho ministry of military).
he was posted to samurai-dokoro tonin(governor of the board of retainers)of the ashikaga shogunate in 1381 and worked there for three years.
he succeeded to the head of the family after his father norimitsu's death in 1388,and became shugo(provincial constable)of both mikawa no kuni(mikawa province)and wakasa no kuni(wakasa province).
in 1392,akinori isshiki joined forces with the bakufu side and distinguish himself in the war at the meitoku war when the yamana clan raised an army against the bakufu,and the following year his son,norimitsu isshiki was promoted to shugo of tango no kuni(tango province).
he was also posted to bungun shugoshoku(military governor of a partial district)of chita and kaito districts,owari no kuni(owari province)around the same time.
in 1395,in accordance with the third shogun yoshimitsu ashikaga becoming a priest,akinori also tonsured and named himself shinsho.
akinori isshiki also joined forces with the bakufu side and distinguish himself in the war at the oei war when the ouchi clan raised an army against the bakufu in 1399.
in september of the same year,he dismissed nagaharu ogasawara of the hazu-ogasawara clan from the position of wakasa no kuni shugodai(provincial governor of wakasa province).
the detailed reasons are unknown,however,it seems there were circumstances that caused conflicts within the shugodai ogasawara clan.
meichin was not dismissed from mikawa no kuni shugodai(provincial governor of mikawa province).
conflicts with ogasawara clan reached its peak at the generation of his son,mitsunori.
he died on july 1,1406.
his hogo(a buddhist name)is chokei-ji daiyu shinsho.
