tadayuki aoyama
tadayuki aoyama was the sixth lord(the last)of the sasayama domain in tanba province.
he was the twelfth generation of the head family of the aoyama family.
he was born as the second son of tadanaga aoyama,the fifth lord,on march 30,1834.
he was given jugoinoge(junior fifth rank,lower grade)and was appointed as the inaba no kami(a governor of inaba province)on january 17,1851.
he succeeded the family headship and became the sixth lord of the sasayama domain on march 29,1862 after his father's retirement due to his illness.
he joined the sabaku faction(supporters of the tokugawa family)in the disturbance at the end of the edo period because he was born in a family of pedigree of a fudai daimyo(japanese feudal lord in hereditary vassal to the tokugawa family),and he served as a guard for the nijo-jo castle in september,1863.
he was promoted to jushiinoge(junior fourth rank,lower grade)in june 1864 and dispatched his troops when hamaguri rebellion happened in august.
he was appointed sakyo no daibu(master of the eastern capital offices)on september 9,1864.
he was appointed to sojaban(official in charge of the ceremonies)on february 15,1865.
in the boshin war from january 1868,the sasayama clan was divided into two factions,the sabaku and the sonno,and they fought each other.
in the end,tadayuki surrendered to the new government when the new government army led by kinmochi saionji invaded the sasayama-jo castle,and furthermore,he attended the meeting when the imperial covenant consisting of five articles was announced.
he was appointed to the mayor of the sasayama domain due to the hanseki-hokan(return of lands and people to the emperor)on july 27,1869 and he was dismissed from the position due to the haihan-chiken(abolition of feudal domains and establishment of prefectures)on august 29,1871.
he moved to tokyo in october.
he died on march 21,1873.
he was 40 years old when he died.
since he did not have a son,family headship was succeeded by tadashige,his younger brother.
