fujiwara no tadamori
fujiwara no tadamori(785 august 7,840)was a statesman of the early heian period.
he was born of the southern house of the fujiwara clan,and was a great-grandson of the founder of the clan,fujiwara no muchimaro.
he was the 4th son of fujiwara no matanari.
his nickname was nochi no yamashina daijin.
summary
as the southern house of the fujiwara clan where tadamori was born already lost their former influence as a result of fujiwara no nakamaro's war and so on while instead the ceremonial house of the fujiwara clan became the mainstream,because the latter were maternal relatives of emperor kanmu,tadamori's grandfather,fujiwara no kosemaro's rank was sangi(councilor)and his father,fujiwara no matanari was goinojo(fifth rank,upper grade)and awa no kami(governor of awa province)at best.
however,he was taken into confidence as a close aide of emperor saga,and in 816,he was appointed to sangi at the age of only 32 and in 821,appointed to gonchunagon(,provisional vice-councilor of state)and even after emperor saga abdicated the throne and emperor junna acceded,he was promoted to chunagon(vice-councilor of state)in 823 and advanced his career,and although he resigned the post temporally to serve closely the retired emperor saga,he was promoted to dainagon(chief councilor of state)in 828.
in 830,he completed konin kyakushiki code(amendments to penal and administrative law compiled in 820)for which revisions had been made since the age of emperor saga.
in 838,he was promoted to the minister of right which was the 2nd highest position as a subject next to fujiwara no otsugu of the ceremonial house of the fujiwara clan.
his final rank was junii(junior second rank).
he was raised to juichii(junior first rank)after his death.
he was a vehement supporter of both tendai sect and shingon sect of buddhism,and that the imperial sanction was given on june 11,822(lunar calendar date)to the project of the building of daijo-kaidan(mahayana ordination center),which was tangling because sogo(office of monastic affairs)strongly opposed,is said to be due to the efforts of fujiwara no fuyutsugu,yoshimine no yasuyo,otomo no kunimichi and him.
in march of the next year,he was appointed to the 1st zokubetto(the secular superior post)of enryaku-ji temple with otomo no kunimichi.
on december 15,828(lunar calendar date),kukai established the shugei shuchiin school at the private residence given from tadamori.
he was also a brother-in-law of tachibana no kachiko,the empress of emperor saga and an uncle of fujiwara no nagara and fujiwara no yoshifusa.
after the death of tadamori,the southern house of the fujiwara clan further declined politically as the rise of the northern house of fujiwara clan mainly due to the jowa incident broken out soon after his death,however,his great-grandson fujiwara no motozane became a great poet who was counted in one of the thirty-six immortal poets and his great-great-grandson fujiwara no muneyo married sei shonagon.
jotomonin kouma no myobu who was a daughter of muneyo and sei shonagon also served the empress of emperor ichijo,fujiwara no shoshi,and played an active role as a female poet in the period of emperor enyu.
