tsunamitsu hirohashi
tsunamitsu hirohashi(july 31,1431-april 6,1477)was a kugyo(the top court officials)in japan.
he was the son of yoshimitsu hirohashi(広橋宣光).
his mother was princess toyoko who was a daughter of suketadao(資忠王)who was jingi haku(a chief official in charge of matters relating to shintoism).
kaneaki hirohashi was his son.
his homyo(a name given to a person who enters the buddhist priesthood)was shujaku(秀寂)and his hogo(a buddhist name)was injoin(引接院).
he was zo naidaijin(minister of the center,posthumously conferred).
in 1445 he celebrated his attainment of manhood and was conferred to jibushoyu(junior assistant minister of the ministry of civil administration)in jugoinoge(junior fifth rank,lower grade).
he became kurodo(chamberlain)in 1448 and was transferred to ushoben(minor controller of the right),sashoben(third-ranked officer of the left)and gon uchuben(provisional middle controller of the right)in 1450.
he was transferred to uchuben(middle controller of the right)in 1452 and sachuben(middle controller of the left),kurodo no to(head chamberlain)and udaiben(major controller of the right)in the following year,and he was promoted to sangi(councilor)in 1454.
he was transferred to sadaiben(major controller of the left)in 1455,gon chunagon(a provisional vice-councilor of state),uhyoe no kami(captain of the right division of middle palace guards)and kebiishi no betto(superintendent of the imperial police)in the following year,and after 1459 he had been in charge of buke tenso(liaison officers between the imperial court and the military government)which was his family's profession.
he was conferred to junii(junior second rank)in 1465,gon dainagon(a provisional chief councilor of state)in 1470 and shonii(senior second rank)in 1473.
he was assigned to nanto tenso(liaison officers between the imperial court and nanto,southern capital-nara)in 1476.
in addition to the position of buke tenso,he had a strong human network through his daughters such as menoto(a woman providing breast-feeding to a highborn baby)of emperor gotsuchimikado and emperor gokashiwabara and the wife of masatsugu nijo.
when he was dying,he was conferred to junior first rank which was not given to the ministers of left and right of sekkan-ke(the families which produced regents)and received an imperial proclamation of jun-daijin(vice minister).
