yoshimasa oshima
yoshimasa oshima(september 20,1850-april 10,1926)was a samurai warrior of japan,feudal retainer of choshu domain,military man of imperial japanese army and a peerage.
he successively worked in different positions such as kantototokufu(japan's guandong governor-general office),military councilor,the 3rd shidan(division)(japanese army)and so on.
his official court rank was army general,ranks and orders,the order of the golden kite,viscount.
the former prime minister,shinzo abe is one of his descendants.
career
he was born as the first-born son of keizaburo oshima,a feudal retainer of choshu,in yamaguchi prefecture.
he took part in boshin war.
in april 1870,he became a student of osaka seinen gakusya(boys' military school in osaka),and in august 1871,he was appointed as shojo kokoroe(acting second lieutenant)of japanese army for the 4th infantry regiment.
in the same year,he was successively promoted to chujo kokoroe(acting first lieutenant)then taijo(captain),and after daitaicho(battalion chief)of the 1st infantry regiment in may 1873,he departed to the front as army major,daitaicho of the 1st battalion of the 8th infantry regiment.
after the war,he successively assumed office as staff officer of kangunbu(an organization of japanese army),chief of the 5th infantry regiment of chindai(garrison)in sendai,staff officer of the above chindai and so on,then in april 1886,was promoted to colonel of the army.
in june 1887,he assumed office as chief staff officer of chindai in tokyo,and upon the reorganization of tokyo chindai into the 1st shidan(division)(japanese army)in may 1888,he automatically assumed chief staff officer of the 1st shidan(division).
in june 1891,he was promoted to army major general and was appointed as chief of the 9th infantry brigade.
in june 1894,he was dispatched in troops to korea where donghak peasant revolution was beginning,and in the following sino-japanese war,he moved under the 1st army(japanese army)to take part in the war.
the achievement he had made at that time brought him the title of baron in august 1895,and he ranked with peerage.
after serving the commander of tsushima safety force(japanese army),in february 1898,he went on to chujyo(first lieutenant)of japanese army and was appointed as chief of the 3rd shidan(division)by emperor.
when he was chief of the 3rd shidan,russo-japanese war broke out and he departed to the front.
after the war,he was promoted to army general and assumed office as newly established governor general in kanto.
in september 1907,he advanced to the rank of viscount,and from september 1911,he also served as military councilor.
in april 1912,his post of governor general in kanto was succeeded by yasumasa fukushima,and he was newly appointed as military councilor.
in june of the same year,he was awarded the grand cordon of the order of the rising sun with paulownia flower.
in august 1915,he was incorporated in yakushu(different roles),and in april 1920,retired.
family
his heir,rikutaro oshima,was promoted to army major general.
his two daughters respectively got married to shunichi nagaoka(ambassador of france,ambassador of germany)and tsunejiro hondo(army surgeon of japanese army).
