munekage adachi
munekage adachi(1259-december,1285)was a gokenin(a shogunal retainer)of the kamakura bakufu(japanese feudal government headed by a shogun)in the middle of kamakura period.
he was a member of the adachi clan,and was an eldest legitimate son of yasumori adachi.
he was akitajo no suke(provincial governor of akita-jo castle in dewa province).
his wife was the daughter of akiuji kamiyagawa.
his children were sadayasu adachi,and a dowager of akitoki hojo(muchaku).
he was born when his father,yasumori was 29 years old.
in march,1277,he was appointed as kebiishi(officials with judicial and police powers),and in 1281,he became hikitsukeshu(coadjustor of the high court)at the age of 23.
in 1282,he assumed the position of hyojoshu(a member of the council of state)with yasumori's appointment to the governor of mutsu province,and in 1283,he became akitajo no suke.
in april,1284,yasumori entered into priesthood with the regent tokimune hojo's death,so at that time,munekage was considered to have inherited the family,and he also took over the position of the chief of hikitsukeshu which yasumori served for years.
in june of the same year,a report from mt.koya to the government addressed to munekage,and during the blank period before tokimune's legitimate child,sadatoki hojo assumed the position of shikken no shiki(regent)in august,munekage acted as shikken no shiki.
in december,1285,he died at the shimotsuki incident(political change of kamakura bakufu).
he died at the age of 27.
according to "horyakukanki" (a history book of the 14 century in japan),the cause of the shimotsuki incident was that taira no yoritsuna gave a slander that the adachi clan conspired a rebellion to become shogun,as munekage changed his name into minamoto,saying that his grand-grandfather,kagemori adachi was an illegitimate child of minamoto no yoritomo.
his son,sadayasu,was protected by the hojo clan(kanazawa line),which was close to the adachi clan,and on september 4,1325,he dedicated daihannyakyo(great perfection of wisdom sutra)to tomioka hachiman-sha shrine in keisan-ji temple.
