shimotsukenu no komaro
shimotsukenu no komaro(his birth date unknown-january 28,710)was a noble who lived from asuka period to nara period.
his father was shimotsukenu no kushimaro.
his name was written not only as "古麻呂" but also as "子麻呂" or "子麿 " in kanji(chinese character),though both have the same reading.
his main name was shimotsukenu no ason(second highest of the eight hereditary titles).
career
shimotsukenu no komaro was from a family of the kenu uji clan and a noble,whose ancestor was shimotsukenu no kimi,kuninomiyatsuko(the heads of local governments)of shimotsuke province.
he was based in kawachi county,shimotsuke province(present tochigi prefecture)and in the reigns from emperor tenmu to empress jito,he was involved in selection of taiho ritsuryo(taiho code)with fujiwara no fuhito and granted kuden fuko(rice fields given to those who did meritorious deeds for the state as a salary).
he received order to be sangi(councillor)and held various posts such as hyobukyo(minister for military affairs),misasagitsukurutsukasa(official who was responsible for building the imperial tomb)and shikibukyo(minister of the ministry of ceremonial).
his last official rank was shoshiinoge(senior fourth rank,lower grade)shikibukyo daishogun(command-in-chief).
it is believed that he erected yakushi-ji temple in kawachi county,shimotsuke province(current shimotsuke city)and made it uji-dera temple(temple built for praying clan's glory).
on december 12,689,komaro who was jikikoshi(equivalent to junior fifth rank,lower grade)reported the liberation of 600 nuhi(slaves)to the emperor and received permission.
on july 11,700,he received order from the emperor monmu and selected the ritsuryo codes with fujiwara no fuhito,awata no mahito and others.
on may 23,701,they lectured on the new codes for the first time by order of the emperor monmu.
imperial princes,shoshin(retainers)and all the officials took the lectures.
taiho code,which was selected by komaro,osakabe no miko(prince osakabe),sanbon(the third rank of the imperial princes' rank),fujiwara no fuhito,shosanmi(senior third rank),iki no hakatoko,jugoinoge(junior fifth rank,lower grade),iyobe no umakai and others by order of the emperor monmu,was completed on september 13,701.
he received order to be sangi(councilor)on june 24,702.
granted 10 cho(a unit for kuden)of kuden and 50 ko(a unit for fuko)of fuko(salary)on march 11,703.
granted 20 cho of kuden on april 1,703.
granted jushiinojo(junior fourth rank,upper grade)and appointed to hyobukyo(minister for military affairs)on may 23,705.
on may 2,707,komaro asked the imperial court if shimotsukenu no iwashiro(shimotsukenu no ason iwashiro)could change his family name into shimotsukenu no kawachi ason and received permission for it.
ordered to be misasagitsukurutsukasa(official who was responsible for building the imperial tomb)on november 5,707.
appointed to shikibukyo on april 12,708.
granted shoshiinoge(senior fourth rank,lower grade)on august 9,708.
on january 28,710,komaro passed away staying at the rank of shoshiinoge shikibukyo daishogun.
