kanjiro nishi
kanjiro nishi(april 5,1846-january 27,1912)is a military man in the imperial japanese army.
he served as an educational general office director,the ryoto defensive force commander(japanese army),the gunji sangi(councilor of military affairs)and so on.
his official rank was "army general ranks and orders of golden pheasant decoration visount".
career
born as the eldest son to tarobe nishi,a feudal retainer of satsuma,he served hisamitsu shimazu from an early age.
after participating in the boshin war and the battle of toba fushimi as well as others,he joined the army in july,1871.
his first post was army lieutenant of the goshimpei(army to convoy the emperor)for number two troop.
in december of the same year,he was promoted to army captain and in december,1873,he was appointed to army major.
he served in the saga rebellion in 1874 as general staff as well as in the subsequent taiwan expedition.
in the seinan war in 1887,he fought as the independent first corps general staff;however he was injured at the war.
afterward,having acted as imperial guards(japanese army)general staff/staff headquarters(japan)kanto official,he assumed the position of hohei(foot solideirs)twelfth corps chief in february,and was promoted to army colonel.
having served as colonel as nagoya chindai army chief of staff,tokyo chindai army chief of staff,staff headquarters first corps leader and so on,he,with the promotion to army major general in august,was appointed hohei eleventh corps chief.
in june of the next year,he was transferred to hohei second corps chief,and participated in the sino-japanese war.
during this war,he captured shimokinshu-ku,ryojunko-ku as well as denshodai under the command of motoharu yamaji,lieutenant general,for which he was bestowed baronage and raised to the peerage in august.
in may he became ikaiei occupation army(japanese army)commander,was promoted to lieutenant general and assumed the position of second shidan(corpse[japanese army])chief as a successor of maresuke nogi.
he participated in the russo-japanese war in may,and achieved feats to be promoted to army general..
in september of the same year,having served ryoto defensive force commander,he assumed the post of educational director general,one of the three director generals in the army.
in april the next year he was awarded a golden pheasant medal and was ordered to accompany fushiminomiya imperial prince sadanaru on his trip to europe.
in september after returning to japan,he was raised to viscount and became a kobieki in march after serving as a gunji sangi(councilor of military affairs).
he passed away on january 27.
he was awarded the posthumous grand cordon of the order of the rising sun with paulownia flowers.
the grave is located in aoyama cemetery in minami-aoyama,minato ward,tokyo.
relatives
katsuo nishi,his heir succeeded him.
katsuo graduated from military academy(japan)as a member of the 28th graduating class and reached the rank of army colonel.
kanjiro's daughter married kiichi saji,army major general.
