kaneyoshi ichijo
kaneyoshi ichijo(june 7,1402-april 30,1481)was a court noble,who held titles of sessho regent and kanpaku(chief adviser to the emperor),and was a classical scholar in the muromachi period.
he was usually called 'kanera.'
his father was tsunetsugu ichijo(the son of yoshimoto nijo),who held the title of kanpaku.
his mother was the daughter of hidenaga higashibojo.
his aliases were tokaso,sangen rojin,and gojonji.
summary
kaneyoshi was born the sixth son of tsunetsugu ichijo,who held the title of kanpaku.
he took after his older brother,tsunetsugu ichijo of gon dainagon(provisional chief councilor of state),who retired due to his being weak from illness,and took over the family estate when he underwent the genpuku ceremony(coming of age ceremony)in 1412.
he came in line with kuge(court noble)in the following year and reached the highest attainable position of sadaijin(minister of the left)in 1429,but the actual power lied in his relative,mochimoto nijo.
he became a sessho regent in 1432 but retired from it within a month.
he blamed it on misfortune.
however,he became famous as an academian and contributed to kado(the art of japanese poetry)of the shogun family.
he wrote "nihonshoki sanso" around 1455.
he returned to kanpaku position in february 1467,but the onin war occurred in october of the same year and ichijo muromachi palace and the library called 'tokabo bunko' burned down.
in august 1468 kaneyoshi went to reside with his son,jinson,who was a monzeki(head priest of temple formerly led by founder of sect)in nara kofuku-ji temple.
he made an effort to teach literature and write in nara and completed "kachoyojo," which was a commentary on genji monogatari(the tale of genji).
the onin war ended in 1477,and he returned to kyoto in january 1478(december 1477 in old lunar calendar).
he was patronized by the ninth shogun yoshihisa ashikaga and his birth mother tomiko hino.
he lectured on "genji monogatari" in front of tomiko,presented "shodanchiyo" to yoshihisa,and taught the art of politics to lovers of academics,regardless of whether their backgrounds were kuge or samurai.
kaneyoshi was praised by people at that time as an 'unprecedented person of wisdom' and kaneyoshi bragged about himself as 'a greater scholar than michizane sugawara';he knew a wide range of academic subjects in detail from yusoku kojitsu(ancient practices and usages),waka(japanese poetry),renka(linked poetry),and noh gaku(japanese noh play).
in addition,he extended the earlier research on japanese classics and,influenced by the sung study,lectured on unity of the three creeds of shinto,buddhism,and confucianism from his stance on one aspect of rationalism.
he did most of his writing after the age of 70 and was full of vigor,as he sired three daughters after 70.
he passed away on april 30,1481.
he died at the age of 80.
his death was lamented even to the extent of somebody saying, 'there will be no one like him having such wisdom in five hundred years.'
his grave is located at jorakuin,tofuku-ji temple in higashiyama,kyoto.
chronology of government posts and ranks
dates follow the lunar calendar.
on november 28,1412,he underwent the genpuku(coming of age)ceremony.
he was given the court rank of shogoinoge(senior fifth rank,lower grade).
he was allowed access to the imperial residence and to wear kinjiki(forbidden colors).
on december 24,he was assigned as ukone no shosho(minor captain of the right division of inner palace guards).
on january 5,1413,he was promoted to jushiinojo(junior fourth rank,upper grade)and retained his position as ukone no shosho.
on january 14,he was reassigned as sakone no chujo(middle captain of the left division of inner palace guards).
on april 16,he was promoted to jusanmi(senior third rank)and retained his position as sakone no chujo.
on january 5,1414,he was promoted to shosanmi(senior third rank)and retained his position as sakone no chujo.
on march 16,he was reassigned as gon chunagon(a provisional vice-councilor of state).
he retained his position as sakone no chujo.
on january 6,1415,he was promoted to junii(junior second rank)and retained his positions as gon chunagon and sakone no chujo.
on january 6,1416,he was promoted to shonii rank(senior second rank)and retained his positions as gon chunagon and sakone no chujo.
on november 4,he was reassigned as gon dainagon.
on leap january 13,1420,he was assigned additional post as ukone no daisho(major captain of the right division of inner palace guards).
on march 26,he was assigned additional post as sakone no daisho(major captain of the left division of inner palace guards)and resigned from ukone no daisho.
on july 5,1421,he was reassigned as naidaijin(minister of the center).
on july 8,he retained his position as sakone no daisho.
on august 27,1423,he retired from sakone no daisho.
on april 20,1424,he was reassigned as udaijin(minister of the right).
on january 5,1425,he was promoted to juichii(junior first rank)and retained his position as udaijin.
on august 4,1429,he was reassigned as sadaijin.
on august 13,1432,senge(an imperial proclamation)was issued to appoint him as sessho.
senge was issued to appoint him for ichiza(first seat).
senge was issued to appoint him as nairan(document inspector who inspects documents presented to the emperor in advance).
senge was issued to appoint him as a fujiwarashi choja(chieftain of the fujiwara clan).
retained position as sadaijin.
on august 28,he retired from sadaijin.
on october 27,he retired from sessho and nairan.
he resigned from ichiza and fujiwarashi choja.
on january 29,1446,senge was issued to appoint him as daijo-daijin(grand minister of state).
senge was issued to appoint him for ichiza.
on june 15,1447,senge was issued to appoint him as kanpaku.
senge was issued to appoint him as nairan.
senge was issued to appoint him as a fujiwarashi choja.
retained his positions as daijo-daijin and ichiza.
on april 28,1450,he retired from daijo-daijin.
on april 28,1453,he retired from kanpaku and nairan.
he retired from ichiza and fujiwarashi choja.
on june 26,senge was issued to appoint him as jusangu(one of the highest ranks of court noble,standing on equal ground with members of imperial family).
on may 10,1468,senge was issued to appoint him as kanpaku.
senge was issued to appoint him as nairan.
senge was issued to appoint him for ichiza.
senge was issued to appoint him as a fujiwarashi choja.
on july 19,1470,he retired from kanpaku and nairan.
he resigned from ichiza and fujiwarashi choja.
on june 25,1473,he entered priesthood.
he was given the go(byname)of kakue(覺惠).
on april 2,1481(april 30,1481 in the modern calendar),kaneyoshi passed away.
he died at the age of eighty.
