takasuke shijo
takasuke shijo(1292-june 30,1352)was a noble man who served the yoshino court during the period of the northern and southern courts(japan).
his father was takazane shijo(after his father died,he was adopted by his grandfather takaaki shijo).
his children were takakazu shijo,takasada shijo,takatoshi shijo,arisuke shijo,and a daughter who mothered kinnaga saionji,and others.
he was conferred upon juichii(junior first rank)dainagon(chief councilor of state)(posthumously conferred upon the minister of the left.)
he was a key person who dealt with the actual practice and operation for the southern court;finally,he died in war fighting against the ashikaga clan by himself to protect emperor gomurakami.
he was assigned to provisional middle counselor,superintendent of the imperial police in the era of emperor godaigo.
he fought in the genko war on the side of the emperor in 1332.
however,the castle on mt.kasagi(kyoto prefecture)fell after a fierce attack from the army of the kamakura bakufu(japanese feudal government headed by a shogun),and the emperor was captured.
takasuke fortunately escaped from the pursuit by the bakufu army,he was sheltered by imperial prince morinaga and masashige kusunoki,but defeated by the attack of the bakufu army,and ran away again to kii province to enter into priesthood.
upon the fall of the kamakura bakufu in 1333,emperor godaigo returned to kyoto to begin the kenmu restoration,then,takasuke was secularized and return to the court,too.
meanwhile,he was harshly criticized for making a mockery of buddhism,because when he faced a predicament,he became a priest,and as the difficulty passed,he quit the priesthood to return to secular life.
it is thought that criticizing 'the returning to secular life' in the lampoon at nijo river beach was intended to imply takasuke's acts.
as takauji ashikaga had defeated masashige kusunoki and occupied kyoto in 1336,takasuke entered mt.otoko located on the outskirts of the city and destroyed the army of ko no moronao.
however,as emperor godaigo was captured and confined by takauji,he fled to kii province again.
meanwhile,as soon as he learnt that emperor godaigo entered yoshino,he joined the emperor in yoshino.
upon the enthronement of emperor gomurakami in 1338,he took the leadership in government affairs at the yoshino court(the southern court)with tsunetada konoe and saneyo toin.
around that time,when emperor gomurakami decided to present a special service reward to yoshisuke wakiya(yoshisada nitta's younger brother)who lost the war against the ashikaga clan in hokuriku and fled to yoshino,saneyo toin objected,saying 'it will be the first time to give a special bonus to the head of a defeated army since the case of taira no koremori who lost the battle of fujigawa.'
but,takasuke,replied that 'yoshisuke lost the battle because he fought alone without sufficient support in the far northland,so,the fault also lay with the noble people who are here and had not provided support.
it is ridiculous to treat him the same way as koremori(who fled back before fighting despite the receipt of enough support),' and criticized the noble people for looking down on the samurai warriors who remained faithful to the emperor,and a reward was given to him as directed by the emperor.
he fought in the shijonawate war in 1348 in alliance with chikafusa kitabatake and masatsura kusunoki.
although warriors fought very hard respecting takasuke's fair manner toward the warriors,who were originally from noble families,they completely defeated by the overwhelming number of samurai of the ashikaga army.
however,emperor gomurakami promoted takasuke to juichii(junior first rank)dainagon(chief councilor of state)in recognition of his services.
as feuds between takauji ashikaga and his younger brother tadayoshi ashikaga became more severe in 1351,takauji left for kamakura to put down tadayoshi by temporarily taking the side of the southern court.
taking advantage of this chance,the southern court occupied kyoto in 1352.
all they had to do in the end was to return emperor gomurakami to kyoto from the temporary imperial house in mt.otoko,but the army of the southern court withdrew from kyoto because they were counterattacked by takauji's legitimate son yoshiakira ashikaga in march of the same year,and also in may,the temporary imperial house in mt.otoko where emperor gomurakami was staying was surrounded.
on may 10,the emperor encountered the ashikaga army when he was escaping from mt.otoko with his guards akiyoshi kitabatake and nagashige nawa,although takasuke in the position of rear guard fought hard against the army,he was killed in battle.
he is believed to have authored "masukagami" (the clear mirror),but this is supported by only a small number of people.
