ki no yoshito
ki no yoshito(dates of birth and death unknown)was an official in the middle of the heian period.
his first name was also called 'yoshihito.'
he was the second son of ki no haseo.
one of his brothers was ki no yoshimochi who authored the preface of the 'kokin wakashu' (a collection of ancient and modern japanese poetry).
he was appointed to positions such as sakone no gen and saemon no gon no suke(provisional captain and assistant captain of the left division of outer palace guards),and in 935 he was appointed provincial governor in kawachi province.
in 936,pirates of hiburi island in iyo province were making threatening moves,and in order to contain the menace,he was appointed iyo no kami(the governer of iyo province)and nankaido tsuibushi(job title which has rights of government,military affair and police authority in nankaido)and was sent down to setouchi region.
yoshito welcomed under his control fujiwara no sumitomo,who was a member of the family of his predecessor iyo no kami(governor of iyo province)motona fujiwara and was well settled locally,and they instigated a policy of giving the pirates fields and making them surrender and work at farming.
however,sumitomo schemed with the pirates and organized a rebellion in 939.
in 948,yoshito was reappointed to as kawachi no kami(governor of kawachi province).
record of offices and ranks held
dates are according to the lunar calendar
on february 9,909:appointed saemon no shogen(third ranked official in imperial guards)
octover 14:appointed kurodo(chamberlain)
february 19,911:simultaneous appointment as bizen gon no taijo(acting senior secretary of bizen province).
february 20,913:conferred rank of jugoinoge(junior fifth rank,lower grade).
september 28,921:transferred to position as uhyoe no suke(assistant captain of the right division of middle palace guards).
february 7,925:promoted to jugoinojo(junipr fifth rank,upper grade).
july 7:appointed saemon no gon no suke(provisional assistant captain of the left division of outer palace guards).
march 5,935:appointed kawachi no kami(the governer of kawachi province).
february 7,936:promoted to jushiinoge(junior forth rank,lower grade).
retained his position as kawachi no kami.
june 19:appointed governor of iyo no kami(the governer of iyo province).
june 22:appointed as nankaido tsuibushi(job title which has rights of government,military affair and police authority in nankaido).
april 8,943:appointed tanba no kami(the governer of tanba province).
march 18,948:re-appointed kawachi no kami(the governer of kawachi province).
in "family tree of the ki clan," he apparently held the position of shikibu shoyu(junior assitant of the ministry of ceremonial),however the period of term is unknown.
