kanenobu hirohashi
kanenobu hirohashi(december 16,1366-october 21,1429)was a kugyo(top court official)in the muromachi period.
he was the son of nakamitsu hirohashi.
his homyo(a name given to a person who enters the buddhist priesthood)was ojaku and his hogo(a buddhist name)was gozuiunin.
although the daigaku-ryo(bureau of education)no longer physically existed,the fact that he was from the hirohashi family,whose profession was writing,and that he was the nephew of emperor goenyu's mother,sukenmonin,meant he received special treatment such as being granted gakumonryo(a scholarship to study at daigaku-ryo dating from the heian period)at the age of three and being selected as monjo tokugosho(distinguished scholars of letters)at the age of five,
he celebrated his coming-of-age in 1372 and the following year,he was ennobled at the young age of only eight and appointed jibu gon no shoyu(junior assistant minister of civil affairs).
he was appointed kurodo(chamberlain)in 1383,became ushoben(minor controller of the right)and concurrently monjo hakase(professor of literature)in 1388 and,later that year,he was transferred to sashoben(minor controller of the left).
he became uchuben(middle controller of the right)in 1390.
in 1394,after the unification of the southern and northern courts,he was appointed shoshiinoge(senior fourth rank,lower grade)kurodo no to(head chamberlain)and transferred to sachuben(middle controller of the left).
after holding the posts of udaiben(major controller of the right)in 1395,sadaiben(major controller of the left)in 1397 and zo-todaiji-chokan(director for the construction of todai-ji temple)in 1399,he was appointed a sangi(councilor)in 1400.
in 1401,he was awarded the rank of jusanmi gon chunagon(junior third rank,provisional vice-councilor of state)and was appointed buke tenso(liaison officer between the imperial court and the shogunate).
in 1407,he served as sahyoe no kami(captain of the left division of middle palace guards)and concurrently as kebiishi no betto(superintendent of the imperial police)and in 1408,he added the post of dazai gon no sochi(provisional governor-general of kyushu).
he was appointed shonii gon dainagon(senior second rank,provisional chief councilor of state)in 1410 and juichii dainagon(junior first rank,chief councilor of state)1423.
immediately before entering the priesthood in 1425,he was appointed jun-daijin(vice minister).
he wrote about his negotiations as buke tenso with the muromachi shogunate in his diary "kanenobu koki."
his daughter became emperor gohanazono's wet nurse.
he was posthumously awarded the post of naidaijin(minister of the center).
