seiemon kanamitsu
seiemon kanamitsu(1638-1710)was a feudal retainer of the okayama clan.
he was a son of yasube kanamitsu,and tarouemon kanamitsu was his grandfather,and sokichi kanamitsu was his older brother.
he started to serve mitsumasa ikeda on april 10,1662 and became kumishita(who serves under powerful military commander)of yataro yamada with an annual stipend of thirty bales for three people(three hundred koku[crop yields],later three hundred and fifty koku,holding various posts such as kachigashira[leader of the group walking first place in line and guarding streets for the shogun]and ometsuke[chief inspector of the edo shogunate]).
seiemon took the post of edo okura bugyo(the magistrate of storehouse)and moved to edo on may 8,1663.
after that,he took various posts while spending days coming and going between his hometown and edo.
on february 14,1674,nine bales for one person were added to his stipend.
he became yokome(job title in samurai family,the job involves watching over officers)at the stable of horse kensho(where people can watch horse race and practice)in july of the same year.
on february 28,1675,he became kurabugyo(the magistrate of storehouse).
on april 9,1675,the kyoto imperial palace was burnt down by a kyoto great fire and seiemon poured his energy into the reconstruction of the imperial palace as an inspector of stone masons for kinri sakuji(reconstruction work)of the imperial palace in kyoto.
from may 28,1676 to 1677,he spent days coming and going between kyoto and edo.
he returned to okayama from edo on august 25,1678.
his stipend was increased to that of forty-seven bales for four people by his achievements of koshogumi(page corps)and also the kinri sakuji on september 12.
he became a bill(domain bill)finance commissioner on november 6,1679 and worked until october 29,1681.
it is confirmed that he was in charge of business entertainment for chosen tsushinshi(korean emissary)(official business for chosen[korean]people)in ushimado(present setouchi city)from august 23 to 26 in 1682.
he spent days coming and going between edo and his hometown since may 9,1684 to serve for various official businesses and roles.
he died at the age of 72.
until his death,his stipend was repeatedly increased up to that of sixty bales for forty people(worth of one hundred and fifty koku in the tax rate of shiko-rokumin[forty percent for the government and sixty percent for citizens,land tax system during the edo period]).
ichizaemon kanemitsu,his son,inherited the family estate.
