fujiwara no ietaka(junii rank(junior second rank))
fujiwara no ietaka(1158-may 5,1237)was a court noble and kajin poet in the early kamakura period.
he was also called 'karyu,' under yusoku-yomi(an expression of respect).
his original name was akitaka(顕隆).
his homyo(buddhist name)was bussho(仏性).
ietaka was the son of fujiwara no mitsutaka,who held the title of gon chunagon(a provisional vice-councilor of state).
he was a descendant of fujiwara no kanesuke and a distant relative of murasaki shikibu.
he was one of the senja(authors)of "shin kokin wakashu" (new collection of japanese poems of ancient and modern times).
in 1175,he was conferred a peerage.
in 1177,he became a jiju(chamberlain).
in february 1193,he was assigned additional post as kokushi(provincial lord)in various provinces and retired from jiju position.
in february 1201,he was promoted to jushii(junior fourth rank).
in 1206,he was appointed as kunaikyo(minister of the sovereign's household).
ietaka served as kunaikyo until 1220,and once retired from that position,he was given the rank of shosanmi(senior third rank).
in 1235,he became a sangi(councilor)with a rank of junii(junior second rank).
in 1237,he fell ill and became a priest at the age of 79.
ietake entered the shitenno-ji temple of settsu province and liked the sunset view above 'chinu no umi(osaka bay)' as seen from yuhigaoka and wished to travel beyond there to gokuraku(land of ultimate bliss).
at the present day,there is a tumulus of ietaka in 5 yuhigaoka-cho,tennoji-ku,osaka city(allegedly the tomb of fujiwara no ietaka).
he learned waka(japanese poetry)under fujiwara no toshinari.
there was a theory that he was the groom of jakuren.
he succeeded late for a kajin poet,but he participated in "roppyakuban utaawase" (the poetry match in 600 rounds)and "shoji hyakushu" (hundred-poem sequence of the shoji era)and gained a reputation as a kajin poet standing on equal ground with fujiwara no teika(sadaie).
ietaka gave comfort to emperor gotoba,who was exiled to oki in the jokyu war.
his poetic style has been characterized as transpicuous and reflecting on the theme of yujaku(solitude).
thirty-five of his best poems were collected within "shin chokusen wakashu" (new imperial anthology of japanese poetry).
the kashu(collection of japanese poems)called "minishu" was one of the rokkashu(the six great kashu).
his son,fujiwara no takasuke,and daughter,kozaisho,who had the title of shomeimonin,were also kajin.
