hirosue saionji
hirosue saionji(january 23,1787-march 18,1856)was kugo(a court noble)in the late edo period.
he primarily served for the two sovereigns:the 119th emperor kokaku and the 120th emperor ninko.
he was promoted up to shonii-chunagon(senior second rank and vice-councilor of state).
his real father was sadaijin(minister of the left)harutaka nijo.
his mother was a daughter of sangi(councilor)munemoto tokugawa of the mito domain.
his adoptive father was sadaijin yoshisue saionji.
his legitimate wife was a daughter of mitsuteru otani;his second wife was a daughter of dainagon(chief councilor of state)kinaki ogimachi.
he had several children including a biological son,harusue saionji who was konoefu(government official at the headquarters of the inner palace guards)and an adopted child,kinzumi saionji who was a biological son of imperial prince arisugawanomiya tsunahito.
hirosue was born the third son of harutaka nijo;the lord yoshisue saionji adopted him from the nijo family,because the lord's sons successively died at an early age;consequently hirosue became heir to the saionji family.
in 1794,he was conferred a peerage;since then,as the head of the seiga family(the second highest family status for the court noble in japan at that time),he was successfully promoted in the imperial court in a short period;in 1798,he achieved to become jusanmi(junior third rank),which gave him the title kugyo.
he served as chunagon(vice councilor of state)twice,in the periods:between 1806 and 1812:between 1820 and 1832;however,in 1832 when he was 46,he suddenly became a priest for some reasons;since then,he no longer attended the court.
his only son,harusue saionji passed away in 1826 before he died.
just after harusue saionji died,his son,morosue was born;however,because the baby was too small to become heir,the saionji family adopted a son of imperial prince arisugawanomiya tsunahito;the adopted son,who was named kinzumi saionji,succeeded the saionji family.
later,harusue's biological son,morosue became heir to the saionji family after kinzumi passed away at the age of 19 in 1836.
