masaka watanabe
masaka watanabe(august 29,1776-october 23,1840)was a scholar of japanese classical literature and shinto priest in the edo period.
he is known as the compiler of "mikawashi" (materials on the mikawa)and "kamo no sawadachi" (the kamo riot).
brief personal history
masaka watanabe was born in 1776 as a child of a family which served as shinto priest of terazu hachiman-sha shrine for generations in terazu village,hazu county,mikawa province(present nishio city,aichi prefecture).
his father was sukesaburo watanabe and his mother was riya.
he became a disciple of kinjo hamajima(bunjo and buntei)in 1790 and learned japanese and chinese historical works.
at this time,he made up his mind to compile "mikawashi."
afterward,he studied under tenan yamaguchi,a composer of chinese poems in ise province.
he succeeded his father as the 14th head of watanabe family in 1799 and became a disciple of jingikan(department of worship),the shirakawa-hakuo family in 1807.
he learned waka(a traditional japanese poem of thirty-one syllables)from hironori ajiro,a scholar of japanese classical literature of ise province in 1823.
he associated also with takao hatano(the founder of the haneda hachimangu bunko[the library of haneda hachiman-gu shrine],present toyohashi city,aichi prefecture)of the same mikawa province.
he completed "mikawashi" in 1836.
he recorded in "kamo no sawadachi" the ikki(uprising)which took place in october in the same year in kamo county,mikawa province,and,mediated the ikki of terazu village in the same month and recorded it in "terazu village kyuki" (the record for terazu village).
he died at the age of 64 in 1840.
later,a monument of honor was set up at terazu hachiman-sha shrine.
go(pseudonym),azana(adult males nickname),common name
masaka watanabe learned chinese-style poem,waka as well as japanese classical literature and associated with many scholars,writers and artists.
therefore,he used many pseudonyms.
they included hohogashiwa en,shihato sanjin,fusecho en,senuntei juzan and doshinken.
as for shihato sanjin of the above, 'shihato' was one of the eight go(an administrative area larger than a village)in hazu county and was also read as 'shihatsu,' which changed its meaning to the origin of the place name of hazu,and 'sanjin' used as a suffix to pseudonyms was added to it.
furthermore, 'fusecho' of fusecho en was the family crest of the okochi clan which was closely connected with terazu hachiman-sha shrine.
his azana was miyoshi(三善)and he called himself junsuke(順輔),fusakichi(普磋吉)and sukedayu as common names.
evaluation
the accounts on washitori-jinja shrine;compiled by yoshitaro okubo;yahagi-cho(aichi prefecture);the shrine office of washitori-jinja shrine:the september 1907 section described that the masaka's theory could not avoid the criticism that it was careless and his papers could not avoid the doubt that he forged the fake.
in spite of the fact that mito dainihonshi(great history of japan compiled by mito domain)described washitori tenjin listed as a shikinai-sha(shrine listed in engishiki laws)in the engishiki(an ancient book for codes and procedures on national rites and prayers)was in washitori,kakisaki-cho,anjo city,masaka aggressively insisted on his opinion that it was in takatori village,hekikai county(present takatori,takahama city).
as for the works of masaka watanabe including mikawashi,it is necessary to be careful about his unreasonable insistence of his own opinions.
his main works
"mikawashi" (43 volumes in total)
"kamo no sawadachi"
"tenpo sawadachi in kai province"
"terazu village kyuki"
"mikawa meguri no ki" (record for a tour of mikawa)
