kanenaka hirohashi
kanenaka hirohashi(1244-february 12,1308)was a kugyo(a court noble)during the late kamakura period.
he was the second son of tsunemitsu hirohashi,who was the writer of "minkeiki(the journal by tsunemitsu hirohashi)."
his mother was a daughter of dazai no daini(senior assistant governor general of the dazai-fu)fujiwara no chikazane.
today,he is known in his common name,kanenaka kadenokoji.
he was the writer of "kanchuki(diary of kanenaka hirohashi."
his posthumous buddhist name was kenjaku.
in 1252,he celebrated his coming of age,and after he was appointed to jugoinoge(junior fifth rank,lower grade)in 1257,he studied kidendo(monjodo(literature)).
appointed to minbu shoyu(junior assistant minister of popular affairs)in 1259,he became keishi(household superintendent)of the konoe and the takatsukasa family,and began to serve as shitsuji(a steward)of kanehira takatsukasa and iemoto konoe from 1278.
kanenaka became the legitimate successor of the family upon the death of his elder brother,kaneyori hirohashi in 1280,then he was successively appointed to kurodo(chamberlain)in 1284,and ushoben(minor controller of the right)in 1287,and shashoben(minor controller of the left)in 1288,and uchuben(middle controller of the right)and sachuben(middle controller of the left)in 1289,and udaiben(major controller of the right)and sadaiben(major controller of the left)in the next year with the additional post of togo no suke,and to karoo no to(head chamberlain)in 1291.
during that time,he also served as ukyujoshi and sayukyujoshi(secretary of the left office of palace repairs and secretary of the right office of palace repairs),zo kofuku-ji temple chokan(kofuku-ji temple zojishi,the director for the construction of kofuku-ji temple),and inshi(official of the retired emperor's office)of the retired emperor kameyama.
in 1292,he was appointed to hinoryu choja(the head of the hino family)upon the death of sukenobu hino,and on november 5 of the same year,he was promoted to sangi(councilor)from kurodo no to,and then he was bestowed jusanmi(junior third rank)to become gon chunagon(a provisional vice-councilor of state)the next year,in 1293.
in 1294,he resigned as gon chunagon,but his title was raised to shosanmi(senior third rank),and further raised to junii(junior second rank)in 1299.
in 1305,he handed over hino choja status to toshimitsu hino and entered into priesthood in 1308,and soon after he died of an illness.
