hoshu katsuragawa
hoshu katsuragawa(1751-august 2,1809)was a doctor and rangakusha(a person who studied western sciences by means of the dutch language).
his name was kuniakira and hoshu was his common name.
he used tsukiji,kokan,and mugean as go(pen name)and his azana(adult male's nickname)was kokan.
his father,hosan katsuragawa,was the third of the katsuragawa family and friends with ryotaku maeno and genpaku sugita whom presented their book kaitai shinsho(new book of anatomy)to shogun by his recommendation.
he had the younger brother whose name was churyo morishima(a rangakusha and popular novelist).
there were two men who took the name of hoshu in the katsuragawa family and they were the fourth and the seventh generation of hochiku katsuragawa,who was the founder of the katsuragawa family.
and there is a record that hochiku(kunitomi)the fifth announced his name as hoshu during a certain period.
the katsuragawa family was a shogunate oku-ishi(inner physicians,doctors who treated the tokugawa family)for generations since the sixth shogun,ienobu tokugawa and they served as a hogen(the second highest rank for buddhist priests)which was the highest rank for surgeons,and therefore they were allowed to read books for western studies freely.
after their death,both of them were buried in the grave of katsuragawa family in jogyo-ji temple in mita,meguro ward,tokyo,but now the grave exists in kamikasuya,isehara city,kanagawa prefecture due to the relocation of the temple.
since the grave had received a designation of historical site when it was in tokyo,the signboard of the historical site designated by the tokyo metropolitan government is in the temple in kanagawa prefecture.
this article describes about hoshu the fourth.
some materials were donated to waseda university by the hand of the descendant of mine imaizumi who was the second daughter of hoshu(kunioki)katsuragawa the seventh and an open exhibition was held at the university.
moreover the residence of the katsuragawa family was in 1-10,tsukiji,chuo ward,tokyo and now the monument is in the place.
achievement
at the age of 21,he was involved with the translation of "ontleedkundige tafelen" which was a dutch medical text.
he learned surgical techniques with the guidance of thunberg and his name was known abroad through "nihon kiko" (thunberg's travels in japan)by thunberg.
he was also an excellent educator and appointed as an instructor of the medical school which bakufu(japanese feudal government headed by a shogun)established,and he wrote "kenbikyo yoho" (microscope usage)in 1802.
he was known as the first japanese who used a microscope for medical purposes and gave lessons to ienari tokugawa and others how to use microscope and put effort into promoting it.
one of his achievements included ordering the making of the japan's first wooden dummy head based on a waxy dummy head presented from the curator of dutch trading house.
kodayu daikokuya and isokichi were returned to japan from russia in 1792.
shogun ienari summoned kodayu and isokichi to the fukiage gosho(the imperial residential palace)and had an audience with them in 1793.
ienari asked them 'does russia know about japan?' and kodayu answered 'they know about japan very well....i've heard some japanese names such as hoshu katsuragawa and junan nakagawa.they said that their names appear in the book about japan.'
'...i've heard some japanese names such as hoshu katsuragawa and junan nakagawa.'
'i've seen their names in the book about japan.' he answered.
the amanuensis,on this occasion,was hoshu and he compiled the dialogues as "hyomin goranki."
he interrogated kodaiyu and compiled "hokusa bunryaku" (a brief report on the northern district[currently published by iwanami bunko])in 1794,and presented it to the shogun.
he also did a translation of foreign geography,such as "shinsei chikyu bankoku zusetsu" (new world map)in 1786, "chikyu zenzu" (world map)in 1791,and "roshia-shi" (russian history)in 1793.
