shotoin
shotoin(1575-1657)was a powerful christian from the azuchi momoyama period to the early edo period.
she was the fifth daughter of sumitada omura,who was known as the first christian feudal lord in japan;and her husband was hisanobu matsura.
her christian name was 'mencia' and her real name was 'sono.'
in 1586,the matsura and omura clans formed a union against takanobu ryuzoji,who was gaining power,and as part of the agreement,a wedding was arranged with hisanobu matsura,the legitimate child of shigenobu matsura(the highest rank among buddhist priests).
it is clearly stated in a letter by the society of jesus that 'this marriage was a strategic marriage.'
however,as shigenobu matsura had an extreme dislike of christians,she suffered from discord with her father-in-law from the start of the marriage.
she was repeatedly advised by her husband hisanobu to abandon christianity,but she resisted by calling for the palanquin to return home,saying 'i would rather go home than abandon christianity' (＝cancelation of alliance);the matsura clan side,who faced difficult circumstances at the time,had to give up the idea of having her abandon christianity.
this hardship strengthened her faith instead,and in 1591,she was praised highly by alessandro valignano who was visiting japan at that time.
in the same year,she began to be esteemed highy within the matsura clan as she gave birth to a long-awaited legitimate child takanobu matsura(also known as soyo).
she later gave birth to nobukiyo matsura and nobutatsu matsura with hisanobu.
being a devout christian,she ordered the widow(christian name 'donna isabella')of a devout christian retainer of the matsura clan yasutsune koteda to have all of her children baptized.
however in 1602,her husband hisanobu,who was her advocate died suddenly while staying in kyoto.
the eldest son takanobu succeeded as the heir,but she struggled in conflicts with her father-in-law shigenobu,who attended once again to government affairs as tadanobu's guardian,and in coping with the edo bakufu(japanese feudal government headed by a shogun),which treated christians and the matsura clan sternly.
the koteda family had already been exiled from hirado by 1599,so she was secretly supporting christians in the hirado domain.
however in 1630,the edo bakufu ordered takanobu to have his wife and relatives reside in edo.
additionally,in edo,she was confined in kotoku-ji temple of the jodo sect instead of living in a residence of the hirado domain.
this incident is believed to have been a strategy of the bakufu to disconnect powerful supporters from devout christians in hirado,under the pretext of a policy of central residence of hostages in edo under the sankin-kotai(daimyo's alternate-year residence in edo)system.
since then,she was never allowed to return to hirado,and died in kotoku-ji temple without being able to be present at her son takanobu's death.
she died at the age of 83.
it is believed that she adhered to her christian faith until her death.
her grave is in shoso-ji temple of the rinzai sect in hirado.
additionally,a worship tower remains next to the memorial tower of her husband hisanobu,in ankoku-ji temple in iki city.
the stone wash basin in front of the worship tower is famous as the 'kirishitan suiban' (christian laver).
