ki no yasuo
ki no yasuo(822-july 7,886)was an aristocrat of the heian period.
he was the child of karita no tanetsugu.
his real name was karita no obito,but yasuo was given the name ki no asominokami.
career
he came out from sakyo according to obituary of "the veritable records of three reigns of japan" (nihon sandai jitsuroku,entry for may 28,886).
his father was karita no tanetsugu,who was a kokujin(local samurai)of sanuki province rewarded with jugoinoge(junior fifth rank,lower grade)rank as a daigaku hakase(university professor).
emperor nimyo deeply honored keigaku(study of keisho in confucianism)and occasionally summoned confucian scholars,but no one dared to debate in the presence of the emperor.
as a result,he summoned mifune no ujinushi as university professor and karita no tanetsugu as his associate professor and ordered them to have a debate about keigaku(study of keisho in confucianism).
mifune no ujinushi debated for politeness and karita no tanetsugu for tradition,and a hot debate was held but resulted in no winner.
the most powerful man at that time was ato no netsugu,who had the sakonefu(left division of inner palace guards)title and tomo no ujinaga,who had the ukonefu(right division of inner palace guards)title,and they played at the beginning in sumo as no one was strong as them.
emperor nimyo compared ujinushi as ujinaga and tanetsugu as netsugu to compete for their strengths.
yasuo received the surname of ki from emperor nimyo and became the low to middle ranked official of kyoshiki(the capital bureau).
yasuo was educated from a young age and he was later granted his wish to go out in society.
his personality was mild and patient.
he first became the phd candidate assistant teacher of keisho(as known as myogyo hakase-doctor of confucian classics)in 858.
the imperial palace asked for advisors when the messenger from king bohai visited japan in the jogan era(859-877).
yasuo also served as both zonmonshi and ryokyakushi at this time.
he was given the jo rank of jugoinoge(junior fifth rank,lower grade)and became an assistant professor in 869.
intelligent court nobles and daibu(masters)were selected and classified under the imperial rescript,and yasuo was entrusted with that ceremony(order).
he additionally served as both vice minister of kageyushicho and governor shimotsuke province in 869.
he was given the jo rank of jugoinojo(junior fifth rank,upper grade)in 874,was reassigned to be kazue no kami(the head of budget bureau)in 876,but left kyoto the following year after becoming musashi no kuni no kami(governor of musashi province).
because he got did away with loyalty and increased respect for laws,low to mid level officials and the public became stable.
he returned to kyoto after serving a full term,and was assigned the additional posts of chusen chokan(master of the minting authority)and suo no kuni no kami(governor of suo province).
evaluations of his achievements at musashi were not heard.
yasuo continued to train himself in keigaku and learned about beautiful words that moved one's heart.
he invited writers and participated at the chrysanthemum festival.
he died of old age at 65.
