wakasakurabe no iose
wakasakurabe no iose(year of birth unknown-september,696)lived in the asuka period in japan.
his hereditary title was omi(the highest title under yamato dynasty)and later granted ason(second highest of the eight hereditary titles).
his clan wakasakurabe(稚桜部)was also written若桜部.
his name was also written wakasakurabe no iose(稚櫻部臣五百瀨)in literature and pronounced wakasakurabe no ihose in historical kana orthography.
he followed the prince oama(emperor tenmu)in the jinshin war in 672 and acted as an envoy delivering orders to provinces around tokai-do road such as shinano province for military mobilization.
his achievement in the jinshin war.
wakasakurabe no iose was one of the prince oama's toneri(palace servant)when the jinshin war started.
he was one of about two dozens of the prince oama's followers when the prince departed yoshino to take up arms on july 24.
on july 26,the prince found out that o no honji and other followers had blocked the fuwano-michi road in mino province when the prince was on his way to ise province.
then the prince sent envoys to mobilize the military on tokai-do road and tosan-do road.
wakasakurabe no iose and haji no umate were sent to tosan-do road to activate the military.
the above episode was reported in "nihonshoki" (chronicles of japan),but "shaku nihongi" (is an annotated text of chronicles of japan)pointed out that there is a sentence in ato no chotoko nikki(diary of ato no chitoko)reported the prince "dispatched the military in shinano province".
the primary difference in both books is whether the area of mobilization extended to kozuke,shimotsuke and musashi provinces or not.
meritorious retainers' later life
july 21(august 29 in new calendar),701 of "shoku nihongi" (chronicle of japan continued)reported that he was allotted 80 households for his achievement in the jinshin war.
according to "nihonshoki" (chronicles of japan),on december 28,672,the number of cap rank was increased to grant a shosen(cap rank)or upper rank to those who were selected for their deeds of valor.
therefore,iose was awarded the same or upper rank.
on september,696,the empress jito awarded the rank of jikidaini(the eleventh grade of jikidai rank for vassals of the forty-eight grades of cap rank)and hafurimono(a gift at a funeral ceremony)to wakasakurabe no iose.
it is supposed that iose died that day or just before that day.
