nobumasa naito
nobumasa naito was a busho(japanese military commander)of the sengoku period(period of warring states)(japan).
he was a hereditary daimyo(whose ancestors supported ieyasu tokugawa prior to the battle of sekigahara)of the early edo period and was the second-generation head of nagahama domain in omi province.
he later became the head of takatsuki domain in settsu province and the head of fushimi domain in yamashiro province.
biography
he was born in 1568 as the eldest son of nobunari naito,who was the first head of nagahama domain.
he participated in the battle of komaki and nagakute when he was sixteen years old in 1584 and was awarded by ieyasu tokugawa for his fine achievements('kanei shoka keizuden' (the genealogies of the houses of the kanei era)).
he became the oban gashira(captains of the great guards)when he was nineteen years old in 1586,joined the battle in odawara campaign(the conquest,siege of odawara)in 1590,and suppressed masazane kunohe in 1591.
he became the governor of kii province with the title of jugoinoge(junior fifth rank,lower grade)in 1595 and inherited the family estate to live in nagahama-jo castle(omi province)*.
he defended the amagasaki-jo castle during osaka no jin(siege of osaka-jo castle)in 1615 and his estate was transferred to settsu province in june of same year and made takatsuki-jo castle his residence.
he had an estate of 50,000 koku when he received additional 10,000 koku in 1617 and became the fushimi jodai(the keeper of fushimi-jo castle).
he started his term as the osaka jodai(the keeper of osaka-jo castle)in 1620.
his enfeoffment was shifted to omi,yamashiro,and kii provinces in 1625,and he passed away the following year of 1626 at osaka-jo castle.
his died at the age of fifty-nine(according to 'kansei choshu shokafu' (kansei continued lineages of the various houses)).
*'shoko nenpyo' (the chronological table of feudal lords)stated and supported the theory that he inherited the family estate in 1612 but 'hankanpu' (genealogy of the protectors of the shogunate),which is considered to be an authority,does not mention about it.
it was written as only 'bonen' (certain year)in 'kansei choshu shokafu.'
