fujiwara no saneie
fujiwara no saneie(1145-april 26,1193)was a court noble and poet of the late heian period.
the second son of kinyoshi tokudaiji.
his mother was goshi,daughter of fujiwara no toshitada.
fujiwara no saneie,fujiwara no kinshi(empress of emperor goshirakawa),fujiwara no masaruko(emperor konoe/empress of emperor nijo)were younger brothers of the same biological mother while,fujiwara no sanemori and fujiwara no kinhira were elder brothers of the same biological mother.
father of fujiwara no kinkuni and fujiwara no kinaki.
also went by the names hachijo and kawahara.
fujiwara no toshinari was a maternal uncle.
in 1147 he was conferred a peerage.
in 1156,he served as jiju(chamberlain),sashosho(minor captain of the left division of inner palace guards)and chugu gon no suke(provisional assistant master of the consort's household).
the following year he was promoted to jugoinojo(junior fifth rank,upper grade).
in 1160 he served as jushiinoge(junior fourth rank,lower grade)and sachujo(middle captain of the left division of inner palace guards).
in 1166 he also served as kurodo no to(reigning emperor's personal secretary)however,was removed from office the same year but was reinstated the following year.
on april 4,1168 he was conferred the court rank of jusanmi(junior third rank).
in 1171 he was promoted to shosanmi(senior third rank)and in 1174 assumed the role of sangi(counselor).
in 1179 he was promoted to gon chunagon(a provisional vice-councilor of state)and served simultaneously as chugu gon no daibu(provisional master of the consort's household).in addition with the change of government in 1179,he also concurrently served as uemon no kami(captain of the right division of outer palace guards).
in 1181 he also served as kebiishi no betto(superintendent of the imperial police),is mentioned as chugu gon no daibu(provisional master of the consort's household).
in 1182 promoted to court rank of junii(junior second rank).
in 1183 shifts to being saemon no kami(captain of the left division of outer palace guards).
in 1184 is promoted to the court rank of shonii(senior second rank)and resigns as kebiishi no betto(superintendent of the imperial police).
in 1186 gon dainagon(a provisional councilor of state).
in 1190,shifts position to dainagon(a chief councilor of state).
on april 16,1193 dies of a hemorrhoid infection.
as a preeminent exponent of waka(a form of classic japanese poetry),he transcribed specially selected anthologies of poetry such as "senzai wakashu" (anthology of japanese waka style poems of a thousand years)as well as an anthology of his own poetry(saneie anthology).
also,according to the chronicle "imakagami" (the mirror of the present),he was known as an expert of the wagon(thirteen-stringed koto/japanese harp)and excelled at contemporary and kagura style singing.
in addition,he is known for being close to jien(priest jichin)according to the "shugyokushu" anthology.
on the other hand,the heian period poet saigyo evaluated saneie as a poet and man of culture however;he was not seen as a worldly person and one to close himself off(according to "kokon chomonju," "notable tales old and new").
