tsuki no omi
tsuki no omi(year of birth and death unknown)was a person who lived during the asuka period in japan.
tsuki no afumi' is the reading of his name in the old japanese syllabary characters.
his kabane(hereditary title)was obito and later became muraji.
he accompanied prince oama(emperor tenmu)as his toneri(palace servant)during the jinshin war in 672.
after the war,he left "the diary of tsuki no muraji omi."
in 701,he accompanied emperor monmu on his imperial visit to kii province.
he was quite elderly but still alive in 727,though the year of his death is known.
the tsuki clan descended from a clan of immigrants.
in june of the year of mizunoe-saru(one of the oriental zodiac signs),prince oama decided to take up arms against the imperial court of omi,and headed east by departing the yoshinomiya imperial house on the 24th.
those who accompanied the emperor in the initial stages were his two children,about twenty toneris and only more than a dozen court ladies.
tsuki no obito omi was among the toneris.
his activities are not known after the war.
he wrote 'the diary of tsuki no muraji omi' after the war.
this is considered to be more of a memoir rather than a so-called diary known in our present day.
the diary has been lost,but a portion from it has been quoted in "the shaku nihongi."
on september 18,701,emperor monmu went to kii province,and arrived at muro hot springs on october 8.
the fact that tsuki no omi accompanied the party is known from the poems recorded in "the manyoshu" (the oldest existing collection of japanese poetry).
he was promoted to jugoinoge(junior fifth rank,lower grade)on january 9,709,and his promotions up the court ranks can be followed in "the shoku nihongi."
on november 2,727,celebrating the birth of prince motoio(the son of emperor shomu),cotton were given to those raking higher than goi(fifth rank).
on this occasion,10 units of ashiginu(thick silk fabric)were given to the legitimate child who belonged to a family of successive generations and who held a ranking higher than goi(fifth grade),but due to their old age,tsuki no omi and yamato no iotari received this privilege together.
chronological list of the main events
june 24,672:tsuki no omi accompanied prince oama and departed from the yoshinomiya imperial house.
september 701:he accompanied emperor monmu on his imperial visit to kii province.
january 9,709:tsuki no muraji omi was promoted to jugoinoge(junior fifth rank,lower grade)from shorokui(senior sixth rank,upper grade).
april 12,713:tsuki no muraji omi was promoted to jugoinojo(junior fifth rank,upper grade)from jugoinoge.
january 10,723:tsuki no muraji omi was promoted to shogoinojo(senior fifth rank,upper grade)from jugoinojo.
november 2,727:shogoinojo tsuki no muraji omi was granted 10 units of ashiginu and silk floss.
