ujitsune shiba
ujitsune shiba(years of birth and death unknown)was a person who lived in the period of the northern and southern courts(japan).
he was the second son of takatsune shiba.
he was minbu no shoyu(junior assistant minister of popular affairs)and sakyo no daibu(chief of sakyoshiki government agency).
yoshitaka shiba was his child
he is said to be the founder of the sueno clan.
family line
a member of the ashikaga clan,which was a distinguished family from kawachi-genji(minamoto clan),which in turn was a line of the minamoto clan
it was the direct descendant of the ashikaga family of owari line.
it is told that the family name "shiba" began from the great-great-grandfather,ieuji or the father,takatsune.
he became sankanrei hitto(the head of three kanrei(shogunal deputy)).
(for more information,refer to the section "shiba clan.)he had an elder brother,ienaga shiba,a younger brother,yoshimasa shiba,who was kanrei,and an uncle,iekane shiba,who became the founder of the oshu shiba clan.
genealogy
minamoto no yoshiie-minamoto no yoshikuni-minamoto no yoshiyasu-yoshikane ashikaga-yoshiuji ashikaga(the third family head of the ashikaga family)-yasuuji ashikaga-ieuji shiba-muneie shiba-iesada shiba-takatsune shiba-ujitsune shiba
biography
as the army of the southern court led by the imperial prince kagenaga and takemitsu kikuchi disposed of the shoni clan and the otomo clan and tried to go up to the east,he was appointed in 1361 by bakufu(japanese feudal government headed by a shogun)to kyushu tandai(the post of the chiefs of the shogunate in kyushu)and dispatched to kyushu.
in november of the next year,however,he was defeated by the army of the southern court(japan)in the battle of chojabaru and made a retreat to suo province asking hiroyo ouchi for help.
he returned straight back to kyoto and,in 1367,he became a priest and took the pseudonym,doei,and retired to saga(kyoto city).
he was also good at waka(a traditional japanese poem of thirty-one syllables)and had close connection with tona.
six waka that he wrote were adopted in 'shin senzai wakashu' (new collection of a thousand years).
