minamoto no masaru
minamoto no masaru(831-november 24,888)was a court noble who lived in the early part of the heian period.
his father was emperor ninmyo
his mother was unknown.
generally,he is believed to be the first of the minamoto clan that was created by emperor ninmyo,and those,including him and his brothers,who were granted the name of minamoto and split from the imperial family and became vassals were called ninmyo-genji.
in 835,he was granted the title of asomi(second highest of the eight hereditary titles)of the minamoto.
he received his first title,jushiinoge(junior fourth rank,lower grade),in 849,was assigned to be the awa no kuni no kami(governor of awa province)in january of 850,and entered the priesthood in april of the same year together with his father emperor ninmyo.
but it seems he soon left the priesthood,was reassigned to the awa no kuni no kami in 852,and then was appointed kunaikyo(minister of the sovereign's household)and served also as the mimasaka no kuni no kami and bicchu no kuni no kami.
on august 28,854,he was appointed sangi(councilor)at the age of 24.
he then served as sahyoe no kami(captain of the left division of middle palace guards),saemon no kami(captain of the left division of outer palace guards),was granted jusanmi(junior third rank)in 866,and promoted to chunagon(vice-councilor of state)in 870.
during this period,he also served as the shinano,ise,bizen and ohmi no kuni no kami in his capacity as sangi.
he became dainagon(chief councilor of state)in 872,was promoted to shosanmi(senior third rank)and served as azechi(inspector of the provincial government)and sakon no daisho(western commander)in 875,was promoted to junii(junior second rank)in 879,appointed to udaijin(minister of the right)in 882,and in that same year was granted a request to have his shokuho(fiefs)halved.
after he was promoted to dainagon(chief councilor of state),he held political power greater than his seniors,including sadaijin(minister of the left)minamoto no toru under the reign of emperor yozei and emperor koko and issued many kanpu(official documents from dajokan,or great council of state)as imperial orders in his capacity of chief official.
he was promoted to shonii(senior second rank)in 887,but died at the age of 58 on october 17,888.
his final court rank was shonii udaijin gon sakone no daisho.
he was posthumously given the rank of juichii(junior first rank).
during the era of ninna,when he was udaijin,he wore a red aoshi,even though wearing red clothes was prohibited,and ono no michikaze,who was then assigned to kebiishi(officialswith judicial and police powers),ripped off his clothes.
