hougetsu shimamura
hougetsu shimamura(february 28,1871-november 5,1918)was a japanese literature critique and stage director.
he was a pioneer in the shingeki(literary,new play)movement.
his original family name was sasayama and his childhood name was takitaro.
he also wrote novels,poems and dramas.
therefore he was a playwright,novelist and poet as well.
biography
hougetsu was born in oguni-mura village(today hamada city)in shimane prefecture,as the first son of ippei sasayama and adopted by bunko shimamura who was a public prosecutor at the court in hamada-cho.
after graduating from tokyo senmon gakko(waseda university)in 1894,he became a writer for 'waseda bungaku' (waseda literature),then a supervisor at the local news section of the yomiuri shimbun newspaper in 1898,and then a lecturer of the school of letters,arts and sciences at his alma mater.
from 1902 to 1905 he studied in england and germany as a student oversea sent by waseda.
after he came back to japan,he became a professor of the school of letters,arts and sciences at waseda university and edited 'waseda bungaku,' actively involved in the naturalist movement.
in 1906,he established the bungei kyokai(the literary society)together with shoyo tsubouchi.
in 1913,however,his love affair with sumako matsui made him leave the bungei kyokai.
in the same year,he formed the geijutsuza(arts theater)with matsui.
the geijutsuza had a great success with the production of tolstoj's 'resurrection' (in 1914)dramatized by shimamura,and went on tour all over japan.
kachusha no uta' (katyusha's song)sung by matsui in the drama became a huge hit and contributed to the popularization of the shingeki.
in 1918,hougetsu suddenly died from spanish influenza.
matsui continued the performances of the geijutsuza after hogetsu's death,but subsequently she committed suicide to follow him.
upon her death the geijutsuza was dissolved.
in 2004,the cremains of hougetsu,which had been buried separately in a historic site and joko-ji temple,both in toshima ward,were returned to his hometown,kanagi-cho(today hamada city),shimane prefecture.
toshiko shimamura,hougetsu's third daughter(living in tokyo),who had been taking care of his grave in the cemetery,became difficult to do so due to old age,contacted kanagi-cho as to her wish to have his cremains return to his hometown.
major works
drama
unmei no oka
novels
shiroarashi
yamakoi
poems
kokoro no kage
