nakahara no moromoto
nakahara no moromoto(1109-june 17,1175)was an imperial court retainer of the late heian period.
he was the third son of nakahara no moromoto,who had the title of geki(secretary of the grand council of state).
he had moronao and taira no kiyosada(the adopted son of taira no kiyomori)for sons,the wife of fujiwara no tadaaki,consort of emperor nijo(the mother of imperial princess yoshiko),as his daughter,and adopted nakahara no sukeyasu(the real younger brother of kiyohara no yorinari).
he had titles of myogyo hakase(doctor of confucian classics)and daigeki(senior secretary).
he also served as the governor of dewa province and others.
he was born into the family that served daigeki and was assigned to that position as late as 1125.
he also served additionally as chokko(assistant teacher of keisho)and assistant professor but quit once he became kamon no kami(director at the bureau of palace upkeep)in 1157,but was reassigned to the position in 1160 and served until 1166.
he had a great experience as daigeki compared to others,and gained the deep trust of both fujiwara no tadazane and yorinaga,parent and child of the regent family,who consulted with him as keishi(household superintendent,in 1128)on many occasions.
moromoto wrote down the conversation he had with tadasane in "chugaisho," which became famous as a valuable historical manuscript that told of aristocratic society during the period of the government by the retired emperor(the title of the manuscript is derived by taking '中' (naka)from nakahara and '外' from daigeki).
he was a servant of motozane konoe,who was the grandson of tadasane,who lived in hiding in chisoku-in temple of nara after the hogen disturbance in 1156,and became chief of and governor of dewa province before being promoted to shoshiinojo(senior fourth rank,upper grade).
the written works that he left are "daigeki nakahara no morimoto ki," "annual functions of moromoto" which described annual events and ceremonies,and "zogesho," as well as "chugaisho."
