tadakiyo makino
tadakiyo makino(november 26,1760-august 17,1831)was a daimyo(japanese feudal lord)and a politician who lived in the late edo period.
the ninth lord of the echigo nagaoka domain.
the tenth soke(head of family,originator)of the makino clan with ties to the nagaoka domain.
roju(member of shogun's council of elders).
the last official rank was jushiinoge jiju(junior forth rank,lower grade chamberlain)and bizen no kuni no kami(governor of bizen province).
personality
the first son of tadahiro makino,the eighth lord of the domain.
his mother was the daughter of tadamitsu ooka.
lawful wife was the daughter of tadataka aoyama.
his children were tadatsune makino(first son),fusachika ishikawa(second son),tadamasa makino(fourth son),yasunori makino(sixth son),and daughters(the legal wife of suketoki ota,the legal wife of nobuyori okochimatsudaira,the legal wife of tadatomi nishio who later became the second wife of tadamitsu mizuno,the lord of the tsurumaki domain,and the legal wife of yukihiro aoyama).
his childhood name was shinjiro,and the names he called himself were mantei,kankansai and so on.
he learns from yokei takano.
since he was related to sadanobu matsudaira,he successively worked in important positions such as sojaban(an official in charge of the ceremonies),jisha-bugyo(magistrate of temples and shrines),osaka jodai(the keeper of osaka castle),kyoto shoshidai(the kyoto deputy),and roju.
in 1808,he opened a hanko sotokukan(domain school,sotokukan),and invited keizan akiyama and togan ito to educate the statesmen of the clan.
brief personal history
he was born in 1760.
1766:tadakiyo succeeded the nagaoka domain.
1775:he became jugoinoge bizen no kami(junior fifth rank,lower grade,provincial governor of bizen province).
1781:he became sojaban.
january 30,1788:he became jisha-bugyo.
october 12,1792:he became osaka jodai and jushiinoge.
january 13,1799:he became kyoto shoshidai and jiju.
august 19,1801:he became roju.
december 1,1816:he was removed from the position of roju.
1828:he was reappointed to roju.
1831:he resigned from roju,retired,and died at the age of 72.
