fujiwara no teishi
fujiwara no teishi(her name can alo be read as sadako)(977-january 13,1001)was chugu and later empress to the sixty-sixth emperor,ichijo,during the heian period(the date of her death is taken from kugyo fujiwara no yukinari's diary, "gonki" of the same period.
"nihongiryaku" and "eiga monogatari" claim she died at the age of 25.)
she was the mother of princess shushi(996-1049),prince atsuyasu(999-1018),and princess bishi(1000-1008).
she was also known as 'ichijoin kogogu(ichijoin empress).'
she is known for being the empress served by "the pillow book(makura no soshi)" author,sei shonagon.
genealogy
she was the eldest daughter of fujiwara no michitaka,who was kanpaku naidaijin(advisor and minister of the centre),shonii(senior second rank),and takashina no kishi,who was shosanmi(senior third rank)and a daughter of takashina no naritada,the shikibu no taifu(or chief judge at the ministry of civil affairs).
her maternal brothers were shonii naidaijin fujiwara no korechika(974-1010)and shonii chunagon(or middle counsellor)fujiwara no takaie(979-1044).
brief biography
she entered the imperial court in the spring of her 14th year when she married emperor ichijo,who was three years younger,on january 25,990(old lunar calendar)and eventually received the title of jushiinoge(junior fourth rank,lower grade)and also became his nyogo(or consort).
she resided in the tokaden or,according to one theory the gyokasha parts of the palace,or both.
on october 5(old lunar calendar)of the same year,she was named empress and given the title of 'chugu.'
in may 990,with her father michitaka assuming the sessho(or regency)and the leadership of the clan when his grandfather fujiwara no kaneie died,the family entered a golden period.
teishi's mother,kishi,served as naishi no jo(looking after the sacred sword and jewels)of emperor enyu and was known as ko no naishi due to her mastery of classical chinese,which was rare for a woman and led to her being invited to the poetry parties at the imperial palace.
teishi's father,michitaka,is said to have had a jovial personality,who loved sake and telling jokes,or 'sarugogoto.'
having the blood of such parents in her veins,teishi grew up to be wise and well-versed in both japanese and chinese,with a bright and cheerful personality.
teishi's attractive personality can be felt even today through the lively description in the "the pillow book," written by her lady-in-waiting(993-teishi's death),sei shonagon.
she had an extremely good relationship with her husband,emperor ichijo,and the trend of ichijo's court to focus on the importance of wit and elegance owed a lot to teishi.
however,her father michitaka,who was the kanpaku,died on april 10,995 and,through the intervention of the emperor's mother,fujiwara no senshi,the political power shifted to her uncle,fujiwara no michikane,and then,upon his sudden death,to his younger brother fujiwara no michinaga.
teishi's position became precarious when she lost her main supporters.
then,the following april,teishi's brothers naidaijin korechika and chunagon takaie were demoted after their involvement in the the chotoku conspiracy,an attempted assasination by arrows of former emperorkazan.
teishi also left the imperial palace and returned to her parents' home of nijo palace,but after the shock of witnessing the imperial police(or kebiishi)arrest her brothers,who were in hiding at the house,she cut off her hair in preparation for entry into a monastery.
she was pregnant at the time.
she entered the monastery on may 1,but her misfortune continued as nijo palace burnt down that summer and her mother,kishi,died in october.
later,in april 997,korechika and the others were pardoned and,despite opposition,emperor ichijo invited teishi back to the court because he wished to see the newly born daughter,imperial princess shushi.
the chugu residence was decided to be a room of chugu office which was far from seiryoden(emperor's residence),however,the nobles at court frowned upon the fact that teishi had moved into the palace after she became a nun,leading fujiwara no sanesuke to write in his diary "shoyuki" on june 22,997,that "people are displeased"
after re-entering the court,she gave birth to emperor ichijo's first son,imperial prince atsuyasu,on november 7,999.
the emperor was overjoyed,but fujiwara no michinaga,whose eldest daughter,fujiwara no shoshi,had entered the imperial court,was upset over the news and schemed to promote shoshi as the empress.
with the support of higashi sanjoin senshi,nyogo shoshi was installed as empress and given the title of 'chugu' on february 25,1000,and teishi,the previous 'chugu,' was named 'empress consort,' creating the first 'one emperor,two empresses' in recorded history.
at the end of same year,teishi died after giving birth to the second daughter of the emperor,imperial princess bishi.
she was buried on the southern side of toribeno in accordance with her wishes.
her mausoleum is the toribeno no misasagi mausoleum in imagumanosenzan-cho,higashiyama ward,kyoto city.
the poem she left on her death bed, 'yomosugara chigirishi koto o wasurezuba koin namida no irozo yukashiki(please do not forget our all-night bonding/i wonder what color tears you will shed after my death) ' was included as an elegy in "goshui wakashu" and used in ogura hyakunin isshu's original anthology, 'hyakunin shuka.'
after teishi's death,the naka no kanpaku family(the family name of michitaka's,who became kanpaku after his father and before his younger brother)fell into decline.
for this the reason,imperial prince atsuyasu,despite being the first son of an empress,was unable to ascend the throne.
