tadaosa daigo
tadaosa daigo(april 9,1830-july 4,1900)was a kogyo(a court noble)and a retainer of the imperial court during the end of the edo period.
he served for three emperors,the emperor ninko(the 120th),the emperor komei(the 121th)and the emperor meiji(the 122th),and he held the office of dainagon(a provisional chief councilor of state)and rose to the rank of shonii(senior second rank).
he became a statesman during the meiji period and was known as the first governor of osaka prefecture.
his father was naidaijin(minister of the center)teruhiro daigo.
his mother was the daughter of masahiro takatsukasa,kanpaku(chief adviser to the emperor).
his sons were tadatsugu daigo,tadayuki daigo,tadasada ichijo,tadanao daigo,and his daughters were koko(prince kaya no miya kuninori),and chikako(the wife of tadayoshi udono).
he was conferred a peerage in 1831.
he was promoted very quickly as the family head of the seiga family,and successively served as palace staff,sakone gon no shosho(provisional minor captain of the left division of inner palace guards)as well as sakone gon no chujo(provisional middle captain of the left division of inner palace guards),and in 1843,he became jusanmi(junior third rank),position which ranked with kugyo(a court noble).
in 1855,he accompanied the emperor as a lieutenant general at the time emperor komei departed from the capital.
the daigo family prepared four umazoi(horse driver),two toneri(palace servant),four zuijin(a guard),four zoshiki(low-level functionary)and one kasa,which totaled to 15 members.
he was appointed as gon dainagon(major counselor)in 1863.
in 1865,he served as toka no sechie naiben(a kugyo who supervised inside the jomei gate at the imperial court ceremony called toka no sechie).
he participated in the boshin civil war in 1868 and distinguished himself in killing the remnants of a defeated party.
he served as sanyo for the new government and became the first governor of osaka prefecture after being the governor of osaka trial.
after that,he was raised to the peerage.
he was conferred as marquess of the former seiga family.
