tadachika matsudaira
tadachika matsudaira(or tadanori matsudaira)was a feudal lord who lived in the mid-edo period.
he was the third head of the fujii-matsudaira family which was one the families of iga no kami(governor of iga province).
at first he became the third lord of tanba-kameyama domain in tanba province.
then,the lord of the iwatsuki domain in musashi province.
next,the lord of the izushi domain in tajima province,then the first lord of ueda domain in shinano province.
he held positions such as sobayonin(close associate),kyoto shoshidai(local governor of kyoto)and roju(the highest ranking government official)in the edo bakufu(japanese feudal government headed by a shogun).
he was born as the third son of tadaharu matsudaira who was the head of the fujii-matsudaira family(the families of iga no kami)and the first lord of tanba-kameyama domain on may 17,1661.
since tadaaki matsudaira who was his half brother and the second lord of kameyama domain was sickly,tadachika became his adopted child and inherited the family estate and assumed the position as third lord of kameyama domain.
he was a valet of the fifth shogun tsunayoshi tokugawa and rose to the position of sobayonin,but the sixth shogun ienobu tokugawa dismissed him from office and kept him away from the shogunate government.
after that,the eighth shogun yoshimune used him on kyoto shoshidai,then roju.
he died on june 8,1728 in edo.
his age at death was 68.
his third son,tadazane succeeded to him.
career
lunar calendar used for the dates.
born in april,1661.
his mother was from the kimura clan who was a concubine(retainer's daughter).
became the heir to his half brother who was 17 years older than him in march 1667.
given the rank of jugoinoge(junior fifth rank,lower grade)and position of awa no kami(governor of awa province)on january 29,1680.
on august 21,1683,inherited the family estate and succeeded as lord of the 38,000 koku(japanese measurement unit)(fujii)matsudaira family of tanba-kameyama domain in tanba province.
moved to the position of iga no kami(governor of iga province)on august 24.
on july 23,1685,assumed the position of wakadoshiyori(junior councilors).
previously assumed the position of tsumeshu(guards of shogun).
named himself tadanori.
transferred to the position of sobayonin on august 21.
named himself tadayasu.
changed his territory to iwakuni domain in musashi province on february 13,1686.
given a 10,000 koku raise(48,000 koku in total).
however,he borrowed 10,000 ryo(japanese monetary unit at the time)from the bakufu(japanese feudal government headed by a shogun)due to the lack of funds for relocation.
in addition,the additional properties were not within the territory of iwatsuki domain in musashi province but in the enclaves of the izumi province.
since it was difficult to move from tanba to musashi,he moved the tombstone of his father,tadaharu matsudaira to senshu.
on may 11,1689,dismissed from the position of sobayonin.
became an okuzume(personal guards of shogun)in 1691.
ordered to change his territory to izushi domain in tajima province on march 3,1697.
in may of the same year,trained sado no kami ogasawara as his replacement in bushu-iwatsuki.
later,the advance retainers concluded the handover from the predecessor of izushi,harima no kami koide.
the transfer of the family started on september 6 who entered the izushi domain on september 23.
on july 1,1705,reappointed as sobayonin.
named himself tadanori.
promoted to the rank of jushiinoge(junior fourth rank,lower grade)on january 16,1706.
retained his position as iga no kami.
transferred his territory to ueda domain in shinano province on march 12,1706 and was given 10,000 koku raise(58,000 koku in total).
also assumed the position of chamberlain on january 18,1707.
the fifth shogun tsunayoshi tokugawa visited his edo hantei(residence maintained by a daimyo in edo)on april 11,1708.
dismissed from the position of shobayonin on february 26,1709.
assumed the position of kyoto shoshidai on october 31,1717.
named himself tadachika.
assumed the position of roju on january 28,1725.
he died on june 8,1728 when he was in office.
his age at death was 68.
the eighth shogun yoshimune tokugawa also mourned his death and sent sado no kami okubo as a sign of his condolences along with 300 silver coins.
he had an exceptional personality and was both a good warrior and scholar,and was knowledgeable about waka(japanese poem).
he was often invited to utakai(waka poetry meeting)by kugyo(the top court officials)when he was a kyoto shoshidai.
he may have been considered to be a meek person by samurai because he made a favorable impression on people.
although yoshimune tokugawa heard that tadachika frequently joined utakai,he never blamed tadachika for this.
he also joined a seminar of "ise monogatari" through the influence of utakai compatriots.
after the seminar,a kugyo made statement expressing envy towards arihara no narihira.
most of the kugyo agreed with this statement,but only tadachika stood up to say below.
'all that you say is false.'
'i can not ignore anything that is expresses ungratefulness.i am anything but a deputy of the edo governor.'
'i can not allow your words to pass with my obligations.therefore you will be arrested immediately and be punished.'
the rumor of this event spread to edo and finally reached shogun yoshimune's ears.
yoshimune contentedly said 'that is the man who is worthy of my confidence.'
this was the start of tadachika's being selected as roju.
children
his first son,second son and forth son died young.
his third son,tadazane inherited the family estate.
his fifth son,tadayasu was given 5,000 koku and established the branch family of taishin hatamoto(direct weighty retainer of the shogun).
his sixth son,tadajin(忠陣)and seventh son,tadahiro took fuji as the family name.
also,there were five daughters who married into other families.
