ienobu matsudaira
ienobu matsudaira(1565-february 27,1638)is a busho in the sengoku period the sengoku period(period of warring states)(japan).
daimyo(japanese feudal lord)in the early edo period.
the sixth family head of the katahara matsudaira family.
the lord of katahara domain of mikawa province,lord of takatsuki domain of settsu province,the first lord of sakura domain of shimousa province.
the first head of the katahara matsudaira family of kameyama domain,tanba province.
the eldest son of ietada matsudaira(katahara matsudaira family)who was the fifth family head of katahara matsudaira family(ietada matsudaira famous for the 'ietada nikki' [diary of ietada matsudaira]is the fourth family head of fukozu matsudaira family and is a different person with the same name).
his lawful wife is the daughter of yasutada matsudaira,the second wife is the daughter of yasumasa ishikawa,and the third wife is the daughter of terusuke ota.
his children are yasunobu matsudaira(second son),shigenobu matsudaira(third son),ujinobu matsudaira(fourth son),nobutada matsudaira(fifth son),nobumasa matsudaira(sixth son),a daughter(lawful wife of masashige ishikawa),a daughter(lawful wife of hironaga matsudaira),a daughter(lawful wife of yasuhisa matsudaira),a daughter(lawful wife of takatomo kushige),a daughter(lawful wife of shigetomi wada),a daughter(second wife of naoyoshi ii).
official court rank was junior fourth rank,lower grade,ki no kuni no kami(governor of ki province).
his common name was matashichi.
other than the name ienobu,he was also called iefuku.
from the early times,he served for ieyasu tokugawa,and when nobunaga oda started to attack the takeda clan in 1582,he joined the ieyasu troop,and rendered a distinguished war service.
in the same year,since his father ietada passed away,he succeeded as head of the family.
in 1584,during the battle of komaki-nagakute,he joined with tadatsugi sakai,and achieved success by taking down the enemy head,magoichiro noro.
after ieyasu got transferred to kanto after the conquest and siege of odawara,he received 5000 koku(crop fields)in goi domain of kazusa province.
in 1618,he was brought back to the former territory,katahara domain,and became a daimyo(japanese feudal lord)that held 10,000 koku.
he was transferred to takatsuki domain of settsu province in 1619,and to shimousa sakura in 1635,and was in possession of 40,000 koku.
on february 17 1638,he died in the age of 74,and the second son,yasunobu succeeded him.
graveyard:kochu-ji temple,sakura city,chiba prefecture.
hogo(buddhist name):上誉露雪.
