tsunehisa oinomikado
tsunehisa oinomikado(november 1,1781-august 8,1859)was kugyo(a court noble)in the late edo period.
he served for the three sovereigns who were the 119th emperor kokaku,the 120th emperor ninko and the 121st emperor komei;he was promoted up to juichii udaijin(junior first rank and minister of the right).
his father was udaijin ietaka oinomikado.
his mother was a daughter of udaijin sueharu sanjo.
his wife was a daughter of gon dainagon(provisional major counselor)tadamasa nakayama.
he had several children including jiju(imperial household agency staff)tsunenaga oinomikado, "ukone no chujo" (middle captain of the right division of inner palace guards)tunenao oinomikado,and udaijin ienobu oinomikado,and今城経明(the child adopted by the imaki family).
after he was conferred a peerage in 1782,being the head of the seiga family(the second highest family status for the court noble),he was successfully promoted in the imperial court in a short period;he held different positions such as jiju, "ukone no gon no shosho"(provisional minor captain of the right division of inner palace guards), "ukone no gon no chujo" (provisional middle captain of the right division of inner palace guards);he took the position of jusanmi(junior third rank)in 1789,which gave him the title kugyo.
since then,he successively held different positions such as "gon chunagon"(provisional vice-councilor of state), "gon dainagon"(provisional major counselor), "toka no sechie geben" (kugyo who supervised many matters outside jomei gate at toka no sechie[imperial court ceremony])and "toka no sechie naiben" (kugyo who supervised the event of toka[ceremonial mass singing and stomp dancing]which was called "toka no sechie" held at the imperial court on around the fifteenth day of the first month of the year,inside the shomeimon gate of the kyoto imperial palace);he became "ukone no daisho" (major captain of the right division of inner palace guards)and "umaryo gogen" (inspector of the right division of bureau of horses)in 1821.
although he became juichii naidaijin(junior first rank and minister of the center)in 1824,he resigned the position within the same year.
since then,he was away from politics for a long time;however,he returned to take the position of udaijin in 1857.
