nobuyoshi oda
nobuyoshi oda(1584-july 10,1626)was a military commander and daimyo(feudal lord)in the azuchi-momoyama and edo periods.
he was the first domain lord of the obata domain in kozuke province.
nobuyoshi was the fourth son of nobukatsu oda.
his mother was a daughter of tomomasa kozukuri.
his childhood name was shohoshi.
his imina(personal name)was nobuyoshi.
nobuyoshi's kemyo(assumed name)was inaba no kuni no kami(governor of inaba province),hyobushoyu(junior assistant minister of the hyobusho ministry of military).
his official court rank was jugoinojo jiju(junior fifth rank,lower grade chamberlain)and jushiinojo sashosho(junior fourth rank,upper grade minor captain).
his lawful wife was a daughter of bouan shimozu,who was the third son of dainagon(chief councilor of state)michikata koga.
he had two sons and three daughters,including nobumasa oda(the second son),the eldest daughter,koshoin(lawful wife of tadanaga tokugawa),the second daughter(lawful wife of nobumichi inaba),and the third daughter(second wife of nobumichi inaba).
nobuyoshi oda was born in ise province in 1584.
it is said that his real mother,who was from the kozukuri clan,was the second wife of his father,nobukatsu.
however,the lawful wife of his father,who was from the kitabatake clan,was alive when nobuyoshi was born.
it is possible that his real mother was nobukatsu's concubine,but was treated as the second wife after the death of the lawful wife.
according to one theory,nobuyoshi temporarily stayed with tadaoki hosokawa after the rank of his father nobukatsu was changed.
20,000 koku(crop yields),such as those of kanra district in kozuke province,was distributed to nobuyoshi by his father nobukatsu in the genna era(1615-1623).
nobuyoshi first established the jin-ya(regional government office)in fukushima village of kanra district,and later moved to obata village where he made efforts to solidify the foundation for domain duties such as the improvement of the castle town and the irrigation system.
it is believed that his father nobukatsu had already retired.
and it is believed that his older brothers such as hidekatsu and takakatsu oda were already dead.
his father nobukatsu had lived in kyoto with possession of 31,200 koku in the uda district of yamato province among other places.
later,nobumasa oda,nobuyoshi's son,fought with takanaga oda,his younger brother,over this inheritance.
nobuyoshi was appointed to jugoinojo jiju in november 1616.
it is considered that some territory was allocated to him from 1617 and onwards.
he was promoted to jushiinojo sashosho in january,1624.
also,the eldest daughter of nobuyoshi got married to tadanaga,the third son of hidetada tokugawa,in december 28 of the same year.
it is believed that the high level of nobuyoshi's official court rank depended on his belonging to the main branch of the oda family,and that he was a maternal relative of the tokugawa family.
until getting involved with the meiwa incident,the oda family in obata province was treated as one of the daimyo families who can be promoted to shihon(fourth rank)or higher.
the oda family in the uda-matsuyama domain was also treated with the status of kokushu(landed daimyo).
nobuyoshi held a tea ceremony and invited yoshinobu satake(ukyo no daibu,minister of the kyoto right administration office)and others in february 15,1622.
he visited to kyoto under the orders of hidetada tokugawa in may,1623.
nobuyoshi served iemitsu tokugawa in nishimaru of the edo castle with masamune date,hidemoto mori,and others in february 20,1624.
in the same month,he went to kyoto as an envoy to the imperial court dispatched by hidetada tokugawa.
nobuyoshi passed away at the age of 43 in july 10,1626,ahead of his father,and his second son nobumasa inherited the family estate.
his graveyard was located in hoshaku-ji temple in obata,but was later transferred to sofuku-ji temple.
his buddhist name was shinpoin shogan josei.
