nobuoki oishi
nobuoki oishi(1674 to october 15,1741)was a samurai in the early edo period.
he was a vassal of asano takumi no kami,the lord of the ako clan.
he was an elder brother of nobukiyo oishi,who was one of the 47 samurais of ako.
his common name was magoshiro,and later on tatewaki.
his name was originally hajime nobuaki.
later he changed his name to nobuoki,but it is said that it may be not nobuoki but nobutoyo.
in 1674,he was born as the eldest son of nobuzumi oishi(with an annual stipend of 450 koku of crop yield),who was a vassal of the asano family of the ako clan.
his mother was a daughter of sadamori oda.
his childhood name was uemontaro.
in december,1689,he inherited the family estate after his father's death.
he also succeeded to the common name magoshiro.
moreover,he gave 150 koku out of 450 koku to his younger brother nobukiyo sezaemon.
after the attainder of the ako clan,he,together with his younger brother,joined the alliance pledge of kuranosuke oish.
however,when the shinmon was returned in 1702,he withdrew from the alliance as of october 3.
concerning his withdrawal from the alliance,he and sezaemon drew the lottery in order to decide which of them would withdraw from the alliance because one of them had to look after their mother,according to anecdotes.
afterward,he lived with his mother in takamatsu,sanuki province,and soon started serving iehiro konoe,the chief adviser to the emperor.
his mother also served the konoe family,and was called toyama no tsubone.
this magoshiro oishi,who was a "disloyal retainer" that did not join the raid,was perhaps the only person that managed to re-enter the government service.
since his cousin yoshitake oishi also served the konoe family,he might have used this connection.
afterward,he became a ronin(masterless samurai)for a while.
however,he became a courtier,receiving summons directly from the emperor's family,and served as an otsukaiban(a person responsible for order and patrol in the battlefield)for the imperial palace,and so on.
he retired in july,1737,titled donyu.
he died on october 15,1741.
he passed away at the age of 68.
he was buried in murasakino zuiko-in temple.
his posthumous buddhist name was ichio nyudo koji.
his second son yoshizane oishi succeeded to the family estate.
