kodaiin
kodaiin(1542?-september 6,1624(old lunar calendar(october 17,1624))was a woman who lived from the sengoku(warring states)period(the latter half of muromachi period)to the early edo period,and the lawful wife of hideyoshi toyotomi.
she was the sister of iesada kinoshita.
hideaki kobayakawa who was adopted by hideyoshi and later became the heir to the kobayakawa clan,was a son of her brother,iesada and therefore her nephew.
summary
she is usually known as kita no mandokoro.
many people had been called 'kita no mandokoro' throughout history,but after she appeared,this name was inevitably linked to her.
there are various theories regarding her imina(personal name).
she is usually called 'nene,' but often also called 'o-ne' since her name was indicated as 'o-ne,' 'ne,' 'nei' in signatures of her husband,hideyoshi or kodaiin(to be described later).
there is a theory that her name was 'nei' as it was indicated as 'nei,' 'neishi,' 'nei' (in different chinese characters)in the documents including "the genealogical table of the kinoshita family" of the ashimori domain in bicchu province governed by her nephew,toshifusa kinoshita.
the name of yoshiko toyotomi was found in the iki(court rank diploma)when she was granted juichii(junior first rank),but it was succeeded from the name of her husband,hideyoshi(refer to the paragraph of imina).
her homyo(a name given to a person who enters the buddhist priesthood)was kodaiinkogetsushinko.
life
she was born the second daughter of sadatoshi sugihara in owari province.
she was adopted by her aunt's husband nagakatsu asano in tsushima,kaito-gun county in owari province(present-day tsushima city).
in august in 1561,she married tokichiro kinoshita(hideyoshi toyotomi),a vassal of nobunaga oda over the opposition of her birth mother,asahi(a different person from hideyoshi's sister,asahi-hime with the same name)at the age of 14(according to generally-accepted belief).
thereafter she supported hideyoshi as a wife all the way to his success.
they didn't have their own child,so she brought up the children of her relatives or relatives of hideyoshi as adopted children or vassals.
among these children,kiyomasa kato and masanori fukushima are especially famous.
she had lived in gifu prefecture for a few years since about 1568.
during these years,hideyoshi accompanied nobunaga to kyoto where he had a concubine and a child,hidekatsu hashiba(ishimatsumaru).
in 1574,nene was invited with hideyoshi's birth mother,naka by hideyoshi to move together in nagahama where hideyoshi became the lord of one-hundred and twenty thousand goku crop yields.
thereafter,nene acted as a castellan for hideyoshi who was often away from home on expeditions.
when the honnoji incident broke out in 1582,she was in the nagahama castle in omi province and then temporarily took refuge in daikichi-ji temple within the domain.
it was fortunate for her that hideyoshi defeated mitsuhide akechi in the battle of yamasaki,and she went back to nagahama to be reunited with hideyoshi.
after that,she moved to osaka castle with hideyoshi,and in 1585 she was awarded jusanmi(junior third rank)incidental to hideyoshi's assignment to kanpaku(chief adviser to the emperor)and referred to as kita no mandokoro.
she played the roles as a wife of kanpaku in negotiations with the imperial court or supervising the daimyo's(japanese territorial lord)wives and children who were hostages.
on april 14 1588(old lunar calendar)(may 9 1588),emperor goyosei paid an imperial visit to jurakudai(hideyoshi's residence and office in kyoto).
she was nominated as juichii(junior first rank)on may 14 when the emperor returned to the palace.
the transportation system was established to facilitate cargo shipments to japan required for the bunroku-keicho war that occurred in 1592.
the system required hideyoshi's shuinjo(shogunate license to trade)for the transportation from nagoya to osaka and kyoto;hidetsugu toyotomi's shuinjo for transportation from kyoto to nagoya;a document with kita no mandokoro's stamp for transportation from osaka to nagoya.
after hideyoshi died on august 18,1598(old lunar calendar)(september 18,1598),she cooperated with yodo-dono to serve as a guardian of hideyori toyotomi.
in 1599,she retreated from nishi no maru in osaka castle(ieyasu tokugawa moved in nishi no maru),and moved to kyoto shinjo(present-day sento imperial palace)with kozosu who had served her for long time.then she served to carry out negotiations with the imperial court and to manage and hold memorial services of toyokuni-jinja shrine and hoko-ji temple.
when kyoto shinjo was destroyed after the battle of sekigahara,she moved to the residence in sanbongi(gion)to spend her retired life.
fifteen thousand goku crop yields of the large territory which was as much as the daimyo territory had been granted from hideyoshi,and was kept secured as her property after her retirement.
in 1603,she was tonsured and became a nun after she witnessed her adopted mother's death and the wedding ceremony of hideyori and senhime,the marriage concluded according to hideyoshi's will.
she was granted ingo(a title of respect given to close female relatives of the emperor or a woman of comparable standing)by the imperial court,and called herself kodaiin kogetsuni.
in 1605,she consulted with ieyasu to build kodai-ji temple in higashiyama,kyoto to pray for the repose of hideyoshi's soul,and decided to live in this temple for the rest of her life.
even after the head family of toyotomi was destroyed in osaka no eki(the siege of osaka)in 1615,she was protected under edo shogunate.
she died on october 17,1624.
as described above,there are several theories about her age;her age at death varies 76,77,or 83.
in her old age,she adopted one of the sons of toshifusa kinoshita named toshitsugu who inherited a part of her property that yielded crops valued at 3,000 goku.
personal profile
at that point in time when political marriages were the norm,nene and hideyoshi was a rare case of marriage for love.
according to records,nene and hideyoshi were 'united without official process,' which means they married for love with no matchmaking.
given that hideyoshi's status was still low and nene was only an adopted daughter of the asano family,it was possible for them to have freedom to enjoy love to some extent.
yet,nene's status was higher than hideyoshi's when they married.
because her birth mother asahi never approved her daughter's marriage with hideyoshi all her life,nene became an adopted daughter of nagakatsu asano to marry hideyoshi.
nene seemed to have a friendly relationship with nobunaga.
about the time when nobunaga moved to azuchi,he heard from nene about hideyoshi's adultery and wrote an encouragement letter to her.
the letter was written in a very polite way considering that it was written for the wife of his subordinate,which was one of the few historical materials that indicate nobunaga's sensitivity for a woman as well as the relationship between hideyoshi and nene.
outline:
'...the other day,i met you after a long time,and you looked more beautiful than ever.
tokichiro(hideyoshi)seemed to complain about you a lot,which was outrageous.
that "bold rat" (hideyoshi)is not able to have a woman who is as fantastic as you,so you should feel secure and should not be jealous.
let hideyoshi read this letter …'
nene had a great voice and a high political power under the toyotomi regime through the position as 'the wife who had been supporting him since his poverty.'
although they didn't change their religion,they treated the missionaries of the society of jesus well.
luis frois praised her saying 'the wife of kanpaku(chief adviser to the emperor)is not a christian,but she has a fine character.everything can be solved by asking her' ("nihonshi" -the history of japan).
frois referred to nene as 'queen' in "nihonshi" (the history of japan).
she was a strong-minded woman as seen in a story that after hideyoshi was appointed to kanpaku,she had a quarrel with him using owari province accent in front of many daimyos(feudal lords).
the letter on which hideyoshi proved that nene was not kind to his nephew,hideaki,still exists.
it is believed that she had a close relationship with hoshunin,the lawful wife of toshiie maeda.
relationship with yodo-dono
there is a story that nene had been treated harshly by hideyoshi for some time because she couldn't have a child although she was his lawful wife,and that nene conflicted with yodo-dono,hideyoshi's concubine.
however,recent researches conducted by scholars including yasuko tabata and makoto atobe showed that nene and yodo-dono had a rather cooperative and collaborative relationship.
it was generally believed that the rivalry between nene and yodo-dono drove nene to work for the east squad(so-called budan-ha led by ieyasu tokugawa,a political faction that is willing to resort to military means to achieve its aims,members include masanori fukushima)in the battle of sekigahara.
however,recent studies ensured that she worked in collaboration with yodo-dono for peace negotiations in the battle of otsu castle and a settlement after the battle.
on the other hand,researches by tooru shirakawa and others state that nene had a close relationship with mitsunari ishida,and she might be rather on the side of the west squad in the battle of sekigahara.
the latter story of shirakawa is based on the following:
many people around kita no mandokoro were related to the west squad:mitsunari's daughter(tatsuhime)was adopted by nene;higashi-dono,her close aide,was the mother of yoshitsugu otani;magdalena,the mother of yukinaga konishi was said to be her close aide,according to one theory.
she acted like she was on the side of west squad:kozosu,her close adviser,was at the negotiation over the opening of otsu castle;most of kinoshita brothers(hideaki kobayakawa's brothers)who were also her nephews joined in the west squad,and their territories were confiscated.
she didn't have a close relationship with busho(japanese military commander)of the east squad:in "shinryuin bonshun nikki" ("shunkyuki" diary)shows no record of meetings between kodaiin(nene)and masanori and others during the period between her retreat from osaka and a few years after the battle of sekigahara.
'nene' or 'ne(one)ne'
she had been called 'nene.'
after entering showa period,tadachika kuwata,a scholar of japanese history,pointed out that the signature in kita no mandokoro's autograph letters was only a hiragana character of 'ne',and advocated the theory that her name was originally 'ne' and usually called as 'o-ne' with a prefix 'o',and 'nene' was an error in writing in 'taikoki',etc.
bunei tsunoda,who was a famous scholar for female names,argued against this as follows:
a woman who lived through that period tended to write the initials of her first name as her signature.
so-called mrs.garasha hosokawa(tama akechi)'s signature on the envelop of her letter was only one character of 'ta';sugenin(her name was 'go'),the lawful wife of hidetada tokugawa,wrote a signature of 'go' on the letter to her elder sister,jokoin.
therefore,her signature was only one character 'ne' doesn't mean kodaiin's real name was 'ne.'
we collected as many female names as possible but there was no person with one-character name of 'ne.'
on the other hand, 'nene' was a very common name that began to appear in the kamakura period(there were several ladies named nene who lived in kodaiin's age,including nagamasa kuroda's wife,eihime;yorishige suwa's wife,nene;toshitsune maeda's wife,tamahime;and naomasa nanbu's wife).
based on the above, 'nene' seems more natural than 'ne' as for the name of kodaiin.
although the name 'nene' had been used in nhk historical dramas for a long time,the name 'o-ne' was used in "hideyoshi" in 1996 and "toshiie and matsu" in 2003.
as for "komyogatsuji" (crossroads of a great achievement)in 2006, 'o-ne' was supposed to be used at the beginning,but 'nene' (in chinese character)was used instead of 'o-ne' for the reason that it should be faithful to the original book(written by ryotaro shiba).
in "tenchijin" (heaven,earth,and man)in 2009 kita no mandokoro appeared with the real name of 'nene' (there was a scene in which she was called 'o-ne').
on the other hand, 'o-ne' is still used in another program of nhk, "the historic moment."
others
in recent years,streets that connected sightseeing spots around kodai-ji temple in higashiyama,kyoto were improved and became famous with a nickname 'nene's path.'
nobunaga,hideyoshi,and ieyasu are called 'three heroes' in nagoya where a parade takes place in an annual festival to honor these heroes.
for a long time,hideyoshi's partner in the parade had been called 'yodo-dono' (nobunaga's partner is 'nohime' and ieyasu's partner is 'senhime'),but the name was replaced with 'nene' in recent years.
her home town places a higher value on her status in the history than before.
