haretoyo kajuji
haretoyo kajuji(march 27,1544-january 19,1603)was a noble(courtier),who lived in the azuchi momoyama period.
his family name was also pronounced as 'kanjuji.'
he was the fourteenth family head of the kajuji family that was a dojoke(a rank of noble familty)(the family belonged to kanroji branch of takatoryu of the northern house of the fujiwara clan).
career
he was a son of haruhide(haresuke)kajuji,who was dainagon(chief councilor of state).
his mother was motoko awaya(a daughter of mototaka awaya,who was kyosiki(regional governmental office for kyoto).
mitsutoyo kajuji,tsuneto kanroji,gyogen date,toshimasa bojo,okiyasu abe and josho horin were his real childen.
he had brothers and sisters such as atsufusa madenokoji(adopted son of sukefusa madenokoji),who was gon dainagon(provisional chief councilor of state),nisshu,who was the chief priest of ryuhon-ji temple(nichiren school of buddhism),the wife of kiminaka ogimachisanjo,who was chunagon(vice-councilor of state),and shinjotomonin haruko kajuji(a consort of imperial prince sanehito and the mother of the emperor goyozei).
his official rank and position was gon dainagon,jundaijin(quasi-minister)and juichii(junior first rank),and he was posthumously conferred naidaijin(minister of the interior).
he assumed the position of the bukedenso(imperial official in charge of communication between the shogunate and the court(during the muromachi and edo periods)and he had contact with nobunaga oda and hideyoshi toyotomi.
his writings 'harutoyo-ko ki' (harutoyoki)(nichinichiki)has many articles on nobunaga and the revolt at honno-ji temple and therefore it is deemed to be material that has high historical value.
on june 1,1582,one day before the revolt of honno-ji temple,he visited the honno-ji temple together with tsunemoto kanroji as imperial messenger to celebrate nobunaga's visit to kyoto.
he recorded the situation around the nijo-gosho palace which he directly heard immediately after the revolt.
reportedly,he protected a daughter of mitsuhide akechi after the battle of yamazaki.
