naoharu osako
naoharu osako(december 24,1844-september 20,1927)was a samurai warrior of japan,feudal retainer of satsuma,military man of imperial japanese army(ija)and peerage.
he served as principal of gakushuin university and chief of the 7th shidan(division)(japanese army).
his rank and order was army general,shonii(senior second rank),the first order of merit,the order of the golden kite,viscount.
career
he was born as the first-born son of shinzo osako,a feudal retainer of satsuma.
he studied at zoshikan school,and departed to the front of anglo-satsuma war as a member of the 5th group of satsuma domain.
after taking a part in boshin war,in march 1871,he entered the japanese army to belong to goshimpei(army to convoy the emperor).
in the same year,he successively was promoted to second lieutenant and lieutenant in 1873,and was appointed as the 8th class serving of ministry of army,and captain of army in 1874.
in 1877,he departed to the front of seinan war,and in april in the war time,was promoted to army major and staff officer of chindai(garrison)in kumamoto prefecture.
in june,1883 he advanced to the rank of lieutenant colonel of army,chief of the 6th infantry regiment,in may,1885,chief of the 1st infantry regiment for imperial guard,in 1887,colonel of the army,and after chief staff officer of the 4th shidan(division)(japanese army)in october,1890 and chief of the 1st office of staff headquarters(japan)in the following year,he moved on to army major general in september,1892 to assume office as chief of the 5th infantry brigade.
at this time,sino-japanese war broke out,and he departed for the front.
in august,1895 he received the title of baron to rank with peerage for his achievement,and received the order of the golden kite in the 3rd class.
after that,he moved on to vice-chief of staff headquarters in position and lieutenant general in rank,and in april,1900 assumed office as chief of the 7th shidan in succession to lieutenant general takeshiro nagayama.
the parent organization of the 7th shidan was consisted of ex-legionaries for the purpose of reclamation and defense of hokkaido,and it had past only four years since reorganization of shidan.
in russo-japanese war that began in february,1904,a mobilization of the 7th shidan was determined in august for the purpose of a capture of lushun fortress being in unfavorable war situation.
he was put in the 3rd army(japanese army)led by army general maresuke nogi to take part in the attack to highland 203.
after that,he also took part in battle of mukden,and returned to japan in march,1903.
he received the order of the golden kite in the 2nd class for this achievement in april of the year,and advanced to army general in may.
he advanced to viscount in rank in september,1907 and was incorporated to a reserve duty in november.
in november,1902 he assumed office as principal of the gakushuin school corporation,an incorporated educational institution,in succession to army general maresuke nogi who had followed his master to the grave,and being in service until august,1917.
he passed away on september 20,1927.
he received grand cordon of the order of the rising sun with paulownia flower dated the same day.
personality
he had another name of 'army general nogi of satsuma' from his excellent knowledge about waka(japanese poetry)and chinese poetry,his past of losing his son in the battle of lushun and his career of being principal of the gakushuin school corporation in succession to nogi in addition to his ancient-warrior look.
family
his younger brother was army general naomichi osako.
his wife was daughter of lieutenant colonel morihide yamamoto.
his third-born son,sanji,graduated from military academy(japan)in the 14th class to become a military man,but was killed in the war.
his rank was lieutenant general of army.
his daughter got married to army general nariyuki hayashi.
