yugiri tayu
yugiri tayu was a geisha of the highest rank,and lived in yukaku(red-light district)of kyoto,shimabara,osaka,and shinmachi;only two women among all the geisha had the name of 'yugiri.'
yugiri tayu(the first)
birth year unknown,to february 27,1678.
her real name was teru.
according to one estimate,she was from near present-day saga,ukyo ward,kyoto city.
it is unknown when and how she came to shimabara;she became tayu(geisha of the highest rank)of 'ogiya brothel,' and then moved to shinmachi(osaka city),osaka to be tayu of shinmachi yukaku(red-light district).
this was the origin of tayu in osaka.
she had a beautiful figure,and was a famous geisha who had excellent entertainment skills as well.
when she died young,all of osaka mourned her death.
it is believed that she was 22 or 27 when she died.
the date of her death was stated in 'a list of season words' as season words for haiku poems.
well known tombs of her are found in tokushima or wakayama as well as jokoku-ji temple,osaka,and seiryo-ji temple,kyoto.
after her death,many joruri(dramatic narrative chanted to a samisen accompaniment)plays and kabuki(traditional drama performed by male actors)in which yugiri and her lover,izaemon fujiya were main characters were produced;the plays were generally referred to as 'yugiri izaemon' or 'yugiri.'
the plays include:joruri, "yugiri awa no naruto" (yugiri and the awa whirlpool)of monzaemon chikamatsu,joruri, "kuruwa bunsho" (love letters from the licensed quarter),kabuki, "yugiri nagori no shogatsu" (new year's remembrance of yugiri), "yugiri nananenki" (the seventh anniversary of death of yugiri).
on the second sunday of every november, 'yugiri kuyo sai' (festival to console yugiri's spirit)is held at seiryo-ji temple.
in 'yugiri kuyo sai,' a memorial service at hondo(main temple),hono-mai,(shinto dance for dedication)by shimabara tayu(a high ranking courtesan of shimabara district in kyoto),tayudochu are performed as well as a visit to yugiri's grave.
yugiri tayu(the second)
actress yoshiko nakamura
she was born in 1920.
the youngest daughter of ganjiro nakamura(the first).
she married the fourth generation man,tomijuro nakamura who had divorced someone else before,and had the first generation,kikaku nakamura with him.
she succeeded to yugiri tayu's name as the second generation in november,1980,as her father's home,ogiya brothel in shin-machi(osaka city)was connected to yugiri tayu.
she was active as tayu of shimabara,and passed away in december,1987.
in november 1988,a monument engraved with a waka poem was built in seiryo-ji temple connected with the first yugiri tayu.
i became a glamorous tayu and i will die past my 60's like retreating mist
