takatane takahashi
takatane takahashi(year of birth unknown-1535)was a daimyo who ruled chikugo province in the sengoku period(period of warring states).
takatane's father was munetane takahashi.
takatane's younger brother was nagatane takahashi,and his children included tsunataka hojo and ujitaka takahashi.
biography
although takatane became head of the chikugo-takahashi clan(the takahashi clan of chikugo province),he abdicated and absconded.
moving to kyoto,takatane served shogun yoshihisa ashikaga of the muromachi bakufu,and participated in the chokyo and entoku campaigns(the 1487[chokyo 1]campaign and the 1491[entoku 3]campaign against the rokkaku clan in omi province,which are also known as the rokkaku seibatsu[subjugation]).
following the death of yoshihisa ashikaga in 1489,at the request of masatomo ashikaga who was the horikoshi kubo(also known as horigoe kubo,which was the shogunal deputy based in horigoe,izu province)did takatane move to izu province,where he was granted kumomi-jo castle and became its lord.
in 1491,however,masatomo ashikaga died and an internal conflict arose within the household of the horikoshi kubo,where chachamaru ashikaga was believed to murder his younger brother,thus leading to the steady decline in power of the horikoshi kubo.
after the death of masatomo,takatane followed soun hojo whose daughter married takatane,being accepted to be a member of the hojo clan.
takatane died in 1535.
takatane's second son ujitaka takahashi took over as head of the family on the grounds that the eldest son tsunataka hojo had already been adopted by ujitsuna hojo(n.b.opinion varies on the subject).
notes:
soun hojo(also known as.shinkuro nagauji ise,whereas soun is his popular name posthumously given to him based on his buddhist name soun-an sozui)is believed to have temporarily served yoshihisa ashikaga,and therefore,it is likely that nagauji and takatane were acquainted with each other in kyoto.
it is possible that because they knew each other,takatane was invited by nagauji to join the hojo clan while he was still in izu after the fall of the horikoshi kubo's house.
