takanori kyogoku
takanori kyogoku(1352-1401)was a family head and a shugo daimyo(japanese territorial lord as military commissioner),of the kyogoku clan during the early years of the muromachi period.
takanori served yoshimitu ashikaga,the seii taishogun(literally, "great general who subdues the barbarians").
his rank was saemon no jo(sub-lieutenant of the left gate guards).
jibu shobu title(junior assistant minister of the ministry of civil administration)
he was born in 1352 as a son to the shugo daimyo,takahide sasaki.
in 1365,he was adopted by ujiyori rokkaku,the head of the rokkaku line of the sasaki clan,because ujiyori had lost his heir at an early age.
however,4 years later,ujiyori had another son,kamejumaru(mitsutaka rokkaku),and died the following year.
this caused a dispute concerning the next heir,and the bakufu ordered takanori to act as conservator until kamejumaru came of age,and appointed him omi no kuni shugo(military commissioner of omi province),a position which had been held for generations by the rokkaku clan.
only 7 years later,in 1377,takanori was relieved as omi no kuni shugo and sent back to the kyogoku clan.
in 1391,his father died and he took over the family estate and assumed the title of shugoshoku(military commissioner)of hida province.
in the same year,the yamana clan,a clan serving as shugo(military commissioner)to 11 of the 66 provinces in japan,started the meitoku no ran(rebellion of meitoku),and he was appointed shugo of izumo and oki provinces for his performance in the battle of kyoto naiya.
he sent his nephew,mochihisa amago,to serve as shugodai(deputy military governor)of izumo,and mochihisa's descendants became the amago clan daimyo(territorial lord)in the sengoku period.
takanori reinstated the sangatsue ritual at the izumo-taisha shrine that had been interrupted.
in 1395,he served as samuraidokoro no tsukasa(a samurai office),and subjugated mitsuyuki yamana who had lost the battle of mitoku no ran and was in hiding in takakura,gojo no bomon in kyoto.
thereafter,he became a priest and used the name joko kyogoku,following his sire,yoshimitsu,who had joined the priesthood.
in 1399,when the ouchi clan betrayed the bakufu in the oei no ran(rebellion of oei),he exhibited great prowess and as a result his son takamitsu kyogoku,inherited his position of shugo for oki and hida provinces.
the kyogoku clan is known to be one of the shishiki(four important families)that served as samuraidokoro no tsukasa in 1398.
he had sons,takamitsu kyogoku,who was his heir,and takakazu kyogoku,a son younger than takamitsu.
