tachibana no hiromi
tachibana no hiromi(837-june 10,890)was a court noble and academian in the early heian period.
he was the second son of tachibana no minenori,who held the titles of tachibanashi choja(chieftain of the tachibana clan)and awa no kuni no kami(governor of awa province).
his children were tachibana no kimisai,tachibana no kimiyori,and tachibana no yoshiko(nyogo(wife)to emperor uda).
he was a sixth generation descendant of tachibana no moroe,who was the first generation of the tachibana clan,and he succeeded to the title of tachibanashi choja from his father,minenori.
he learned under sugawara no koreyoshi,and served three generations of emperors,emperors yozei,koko,and uda;became shoshiinoge(junior fourth rank,lower grade)and sangi(consultant)after serving as omi no kuni no kami(governor of omi province),togu gakushi(teacher of the classics of the crown prince),minbu shoyu(junior assistant minister of popular affairs),monjo hakase(professor of literature),shikibu no taifu(senior assistant minister of ministry of ceremonial),kageyu no kami(chief investigator of the records of outgoing officials),and sadaiben(major controller of the left).
fujiwara no mototsune,whom emperor uda wanted to assign as the kanpaku(chief adviser to the emperor),became angry at the emperor's reply, 'appoint to ako,' which hiromi wrote,claiming that ako was just a rank without any official duties,and he refused the appointment,leading to the ako incident in 887.
anguished over the delayed and lengthened political duties,the emperor accepted a suggestion by mototsune and admitted the failure of hiromi;hiromi lost his position while taking responsibility in the following year,in 888.
however,because mototsune's daughter entered imperial court as a consort of the emperor after the incident,it was considered to be a scheme of the fujiwara clan,who was wary of tachibana becoming a maternal relative of the emperor by the accession of the imperial prince of yoshiko,who was the daughter of hiromi.
hiromi passed away on june 10,890.
on the same day,he was posthumously awarded jusanmi(junior third rank),chunagon(vice-councilor of state).
