kenkai oka
kenkai oka(1799-december 8,1839)was ranpoi(a person who studied western medicine by means of the dutch language)who lived during the edo period.
he was born in suo province.
his given name was sho.
his azana(courtesy name used in place of one's given name in formal situations)was shikyu.
he first called himself with a pseudonym in shuto,and later changed to chian.
personal profile
kenkai oka was born in hirao village in suo province(current hirao town,kumage county,yamaguchi prefecture)in 1799.
he was the fifth child of hirozumi oka.
in 1811,he studied chinese classic books under doctor shikuma in ogo village,and in 1814,he studied medicine away from his hometown.
next year,he went to aki province and stayed there for three years;in may 1817,he became the disciple of a known rangakusha(a person who studied western sciences by means of the dutch language)in aki province,kotaku nakai;in the winter of that year,he studied under shomin goto.
in 1819,he started practicing the medicine in hagi region;however,he made up his mind with a higher determination to master medical science,then he went to hita district in bungo province,to visit and work under tanso hirose in 1820.
in 1822,kenkai became a disciple of shoyo kamei in fukuoka and stayed there for a year and half;in february 1824,he went to nagasaki and studied under philipp franz balthasar von siebold.
he had achieved the trust of siebold during his stay in nagasaki for a little over six years;he became the first school manager of the newly established narutakijuku(the school of narutaki)together with junzo mima.
although he wished to go to edo in 1830,he could not accomplish his will,then he started practicing in osaka instead;when he temporarily returned to his hometown in 1832,he was taken into the service of the lord of the iwakuni domain,tsunehiro kikkawa as jii(attendant doctor).
he returned to osaka next year,but he returned to hometown for taking rest after suffering from hallucinatory paranoid mental disorders.
he died on december 8,1839.
