saeki no kazuragi
saeki no kazuragi is a court noble in the nara period.
his main name is saeki no sukune.
brief personal history
the phase of government official in kyoto
on november 11,784 on the old calendar,emperor kanmu at that time transferred the capital from heijyo-kyo to nagaoka-kyo.
on january 21,785 or december 2,784 on the old calendar,kazuragi was promoted from shorokuinojo(senior sixth rank,upper grade)to jugoinoge(junior fifth rank,lower grade)as his achievement in establishing and operating nagaoka palace in the new capital was recognized.
saeki no imaemishi,a member of this family became sangi(councilor)at that time.
on april 28,785 or march 11 on the old calendar,kazuragi was assigned to konoehei ryoge no kan(a post outside the original ritsuryo code created by imperial edicts),and on november 9,785 or september 29 on the old calendar,he was assigned to sashoben(third-ranked officer of the left).
phase of seito vice-shogun
on september 8,786 or august 8 on the old calendar,kazuragi,together with a member of hangan(judge,magistrate),a member of sakan,was dispatched to tokaido region to review the prepared army and to check arms for conquest of ezo.
紀楫長was dispatched to tosan-do road at this time.
on march 3,787 or february 5 on the old calendar,kazuragi was assigned to mutsu no kuni no suke(assistant governor of mutsu province)and to chinju-fu shogun(commander-in-chief of the defense of the north).
on march 23 or february 25 on the old calendar,kazuragi became shimotsuke no kami(the governor of shimotsuke province)while mutsu no suke was replaced by fujiwara no kadonomaro,and chinju-fu shogun was replaced by ikeda no mahira.
on december 11 or october 24 on the old calendar,he was assigned to minbu shoyu(junior assistant minister of popular affairs).
it is assumed that he was in kyoto at this time.
on may 5,788 or march 21 on the old calendar,in the following year,kazuragi,together with入間廣成and ki no mahito,were ordered by seii taishogun(literally, "great general who subdues the barbarians")in the nara and heian period to go on a conquest leading the army.
at this time,the seii taishogun(literally, "great general who subdues the barbarians")in the nara and heian period was shoshiinoge(senior fourth rank,lower grade),ki no kosami,and the seito vice-shogun were katsuragi,入間廣成,and ki no mahito.
the officers of the irregular forces were as follows:that of the front guard was abe no sashima no suminawa,that of the left-middle guard was ikeda no mahira,and that of the rear guard was hasetsukabe no yoshimaro,while the total number of solders was 27,470.
however,the seitogun(expeditionary force)struggled to find an efficient attack against aterui in isawa-jo castle,the force of ezo(the early modern japanese to describe the island of hokkaido and the people who lived there)of shiwa county and waga county.
kazuragi passed away at the camps of koromogawa.
on june 27,789 or may 26 on the old calendar,katsuragi,who passed away in the positions of seito vice-shogun,minbu shoyu,shimotsuke no kami(the governor of shimotsuke province),kun hachito,was granted shogoinoge(senior fifth rank,lower grade).
