tsuneyuki nakamikado
tsuneyuki nakamikado(january 20,1821-august 27,1891)was kugyo(the top court officials)in the end of the edo period and a peerage in the meiji period.
character
he was born as the fifth son of toshiaki bojo and became the adoptive heir of sukefumi nakamikado.
he held positions such as jako no ma shiko(emperor's personal attendant in jako room),dainagon(chief councilor of state)and rusu chokan(a person representing the chief officer during his absence).
his rank,order and peerage were juichii(junior first rank),the first order of merit and marquis respectively.
his wife was tomiko,a daughter of yasuchika horikawa(an elder sister of tomomi iwakura).
when an issue on the imperial sanction for the treaty of commerce arose in 1858,he was against it as a member of the opposing group of 88 retainers(teishin hachiju-hachi kyo[88 retainers of imperial court]).
in 1863 he followed the emperor komei's gyoko(emperor's going out)to iwashimizuhachiman-gu shrine.
after that,he became one of the kugyo of anti-shogunate group with tomomi iwakura and impeached nariyuki nijo,the chief adviser to the emperor,and imperial prince nakagawa no miya asahiko who were sabaku-ha(supporters of the shogun)in 1866.
however,for this reason he faced the wrath of emperor komei who deeply relied on the imperial prince and was punished with house confinement.
in the end of the same year,emperor komei died and imperial prince mutsuhito(later emperor meiji)ascended the throne.
after that,he was pardoned and returned to the imperial court.
later,he joined the meeting for the secret imperial command of attacking the shogunate and was assigned to gijo(official post)at the time of the restoration of imperial rule in december 1867.
he was assigned to the chief of accountancy in january of the following year,1868,at the same time,transferred to toku(captain)of the accounting office in february,gon chunagon(a provisional vice-councilor of state)and shusshi(supernumerary government official)of finance office in leap april,and the governor of finance office in august.
he held positions such as an officer of mint bureau in february 1869,was assigned to the governor of naiteishiki(内廷職)(officials who were in charge of daily lives of the imperial family)in may,and was transferred to rusu chokan in july.
in september,he was given 1,500 koku(crop yields)as permanent shotenroku(premium)for a merit of the restoration and was assigned to dainagon in november.
however,he resigned rusu chokan in 1870 because of his disease and was assigned to jako no ma shiko.
after that,he joined the discussion to found kasumi-kaikan(kasumi hall).
in august 1891,he was conferred juichii with a special consideration because his disease became worse.
on august 27,1891,he died of disease.
