syoh yoshida
syoh yoshida(january 24,1984-)is a japanese-style painter who was born in aichi prefecture.
he launched his career as a creative artist in 2004 with his participation in a multi-artist exhibition entitled 'b-port-yohaku no chi' (literally, "the land on the margins of b-port"),which was held in gallery space b at osaka seikei university by the faculty of art and design.
in 2006,two exhibitions devoted solely to his work were held,the "beautiful thing-utsukushii koto" exhibition(at space b in kyoto)and the "dark lake-kuroi mizuumi" exhibition(at casper's gallery in tokyo).
the 'dark lake--kuroi mizuumi' exhibition was extensively covered by the hong kong-based creative lifestyle magazine 'the outlook magazine' (reference:the october issue of volume fifty-four,published by modern media),earning yoshida recognition overseas also.
also in 2006,yoshida expanded his creative horizons to include the designing of yukata(japanese summer kimono)for kawashima selkon textiles co.,ltd's 'meteyunde' brand;his designs attracted considerable attention after actress aoi miyazaki appeared wearing the "float flower" yukata,which yoshida had designed(reference: 'yukata natsu kimono kikonashi book 2006,' published by index communications corporation).
in 2008,yoshida launched two more solo exhibitions,one entitled "night trace-yoru no ato," that was held at the shinjuku branch of the takashimaya department store,and one entitled "distant promise-toi yakusoku" in harbour city(hong kong).
notable achievements include his selection in the 'selected artists in kyoto-2007 new wave' in 2007(at the museum of kyoto)and his being chosen to receive 'the eleventh taro okamoto award for contemporary art' in 2008.
he opened his official website 'syoh yoshida-archives' in 2008.
today he is based in kyoto,where he energetically participates in solo and group exhibitions in japan and abroad.
within japan,the imura art gallery manages most of his work.
his artistic style
using only black ink and chalk--the typical materials in japanese-style painting--he expresses the essence of relaxed,everyday life,and conjures up a world of light and shadow through his unique perspectives and sense of tonality,with which he creates an airy,floating impression in his images.
although he has accepted the legacy of japanese-style painting by using its traditional materials and techiques,he seeks a fresh new mode of expression through his work.
career
1984:born in nagoya city,aichi prefecture
2003:graduated from seian junior college of art and design,faculty of art and design,art course,japanese painting class
2006:graduated from osaka seikei university,faculty of art and design,arts and crafts course,painting expression,japanese painting workshop
2008:completed the postgraduate art course "painting expression" (a japanese-style painting workshop)offered at osaka seikei university by the faculty of art and design.
awards
in 2006,yoshida won the award for the best exhibition plan in the '2006 student exhibition plan competition of the composite art center of osaka seikei university,faculty of art and design,' and also held a solo art exhibition.
in 2007,his work was selected for 'selected artists in kyoto-2007 new wave-' and put on official display.
in 2008,his work was selected for 'the eleventh taro okamoto award for contemporary art' and put on official display.
commissioned work
2006: 'kawashima yukata collection 2006' by kawashima selkon textiles co.,ltd.
