miyamaki station
miyamaki station,located in kyotanabe city of kyoto prefecture,is a stop on the kintetsu kyoto line of the kintetsu corporation.
station layout
it is an elevated station with two platforms opposite each other and two tracks in between.
the platform length is sufficient to accommodate six cars.
ticket gates are found in only one location.
the automated ticket gates were manufactured by toshiba.
the red-colored automated ticket gates(eg-2000)can process two tickets together when exiting and are compatible with the pitapa and icoca cards.
usage status
a survey conducted on november 8,2005 revealed that the number of passengers who got on and off at this station that day was 3,610.
it was ranked 145th among all kintetsu stations(323 stations on that date)subject to the survey.
it ranked twenty-second among the 26 stations(including yamato-saidaiji station)on the kyoto line.
it ranked twentieth among the 23 kintetsu stations located in kyoto prefecture.
station surroundings
many buses shuttle between doshisha kyotanabe campus(doshisha university,doshisha women's college of liberal arts,doshisha international senior high school)and the bus terminal in front of the station.
jr doshisha-mae station and kintetsu kodo station are located nearer to the doshisha kyotanabe campus,but there are no bus routes operating from or to either of the two stations.
given such circumstances,nara kotsu bus lines position kintetsu miyamaki station and jr miyamaki station(katamachi line)as bus gateways to doshisha and sell special discount coupon tickets to doshisha students and faculty members in order to promote their use of the buses.
jr miyamaki station-west japan railway company katamachi line
they are nearly adjacent to each other and share the station's forecourt(bus terminal and taxi stands).
kyotanabe municipal miyamaki elementary school
miyamaki post office
wel sunpia kyoto…if going there by bus(public transportation),it is also convenient to get off at shin-tanabe station.
yawata-kizu line of kyoto prefectural route 22
ikoma-ide line of nara prefectural route/kyoto prefectural route 65
bus routes
nara kotsu bus lines co.,ltd.
bus stop:miyamaki-eki-mae/futamata(along national route 24)
99 express doshisha loop line
72 kyotanabe city hall
characteristics
although this station doesn't have tracks to park trains or provide refuge,at one time the kintetsu nara line had directional screens that denoted 'express miyamaki, ' 'semi-express miyamaki,' etc.
this resulted from a measure taken for the neighboring kintetsu-miyazu station located in the direction of saidaiji having been treated as a signal station(miyamaki signal station)at the outset,when miyazu shako depot was established,but soon thereafter said signal station was upgraded to a railway station and as such it created a need to install additional directional screens from the introduction of regional semi-express trains on the nara line emanating from the timetable revision of march 2006,thereby eliminating the two aforementioned screens.
other than as mentioned above,directional screens such as 'express(yamato)saidaiji,' 'this car only up to miyamaki' and 'semi express nara,this car only up to miyamaki,' etc.,as indicative of adding or disconnecting cars,are also installed.
of course,today there is not a single train operating in that manner.
however,there was a time in the past when occasional miyamaki bound local trains leaving shin-tanabe were in operation.
history
november 3,1928:the station was inaugurated when the section between momoyama goryo-mae station and saidaiji(now yamato-saidaiji)station on nara electric railway opened for operation.
october 1,1963:the station became a kintetsu corporation station as a result of the amalgamation.
july 10,2004:operations using elevated platform for trains bound for kyoto commenced.
august 6,2005:operations using elevated platform for trains bound for yamato-saidaiji commenced,thus completing the elevated construction work.
april 1,2007:the use of pitapa cards commenced.
neighboring stations
kintetsu corporation
kyoto line
■express(trains departing from and/or arriving at stations south of shin-hosono)
nonstop
■express(trains operating between kyoto and miyazu)/■local kodo station-miyamaki station-kintetsu-miyazu station
