shisho station
shisho station,located in kamifukui,maizuru city,kyoto prefecture,is a stop on the miyazu line,which is operated by kitakinki tango railway(ktr).
only local trains stop at this station.
station layout
the station is provided with two platforms with two tracks served between them.
a checking station,where in older days persons about to pass through the station were checked by governmental officers,once existed around this station,and the station house is designed in a style reminiscent of a checking station.
a lavatory and waiting room are provided in the station house.
the station is unmanned.
a so-called "through" track structure*is used to enable trains passing through this station to run without decreasing their speeds(*one of the station's tracks is generally straight for the convenience of inbound and outbound trains passing through the station).
station surroundings
a big shoya house:the family house of a ueno(a village headman)(located in the saihoji area)
this thatched house,built late in the edo period has been repaired and used as a tourist spot;reservations to see the house is required,and visitors can participate in various activities there.
fujitu-onsen hot spring(about ten minutes on foot or ten minutes via a kyoto kotsu(maizuru)bus from the station)
toretore center at maizuru port:get off at this station,then either walk or ride a bus of kyoto kotsu bus for 10 minutes.
kita industrial park
the okada area
national route 175
passenger use
in fiscal year 2006,the average daily number of persons getting on board at this station was 14.
(according to the kyoto prefecture statistics report)
history
april 12,1924:this station started its operation as a stop on the mineyama line,which was operated by japanese national railways.
april 1,1987:due to the division and privatization of japan national railways,it became a station of the west japan railway company(jr west).
april 1,1990:its ownership was transferred to kitakinki tango railway.
march 29,1996:the construction of the present station house was completed.
adjacent stations
kitakinki tango railway
miyazu line
nishi-maizuru station-shisho station-shinonome station(kyoto prefecture)
