jujo station(kintetsu)
jujo station,located in yanaginouchi-cho,nishi-kujo,minami ward,kyoto city,kyoto prefecture,is a railway station on the kintetsu kyoto line,which is operated by kintetsu corporation.
station layout
it is an elevated station equipped with a one-side,two-track island platform.
it admits six-car trains.
the ticket examination facility and concourse are on the first floor,and the platform is on the second floor.
it has only one ticket gate.
the automatic ticket gates were manufactured by toshiba.
the red-colored ticket gates(eg-2000)can handle two ic cards at a time when a passenger is exiting,and pitapa card and icoca,both of which are ic cards,are available for payment of railway fares at this ticket gate.
passenger use
according to a survey conducted on november 8,2005,the number of users was 4,731.
this was the 123rd position out of all kintetsu railway stations targeted by the survey(323 stations,as of the survey date).
it ranked twenty-first out of all the stations on the kyoto line(26 stations,including yamato-saidaiji).
it ranked nineteenth out of all the stations of kintetsu railway within kyoto city(23 stations).
station surroundings
kyoto city minami ward office
the kyoto-jujo post office
jujo-dori street
the head office of sg holdings co.,ltd.;the head office/kyoto office of sagawa express co.,ltd.
bus
the nearest bus stop is a two-minute walk,being located at jujo abura koji along kyoto city route 181 kyoto loop line.
kyoto city bus handles the operation,and the following route buses are available:
kyoto city bus kujo office route 16:for the kujo shako-depot;for kyoto station
history
november 15,1928:the station opened when nara electric railway began operating between kyoto station and momoyamagoryomae station.
october 1,1963:with the merger of the company,it became a station of kintetsu corporation.
november 27,1999:it was elevated,following the consecutive replacement of crossings to those with an overpass or underpass in the section between takeda station and toji station.
april 1,2007:pitapa became accepted at the station.
adjacent stations
kintetsu corporation
kyoto line
express/semi-express
nonstop
local
toji station-jujo station-kamitobaguchi station
