karasuma station
karasuma station,located at 17,naginataboko-cho,shijo-dori karasuma higashi-iru,shimogyo ward,kyoto city,is a stop on the hankyu kyoto line,which is operated by the hankyu railway.
the station is located underground,below the intersection of shijo karasuma;the station on the hankyu kyoto line,which runs in the east-west direction,was named 'karasuma station' after the street that runs in the south-north direction,whereas the station on the karasuma line(operated by the kyoto municipal subway)that runs in the south-north direction was named 'shijo station(kyoto municipal subway).'
lines connecting from karasuma station
kyoto municipal subway
karasuma station-shijo station
station layout
karasuma station is an underground station with one platform serving two tracks;the station is underground,below the intersection of shijo karasuma.
ticket gates are installed on both east and west of the station;the west ticket gate is closer to shijo station of the kyoto municipal subway.
the toilet is located to the west of the platform,as is the elevator.
the station is connected to the next station,kawaramachi(kyoto prefecture),through an underground passage outside the ticket gate,which is just below shijo-dori street and just above the railway(there are few shops along the passage).
the speed limit within the station is not designated for karasuma station,but this isn't common among the stations of the hankyu railway;consequently,passengers have to be cautious about incoming trains because the ones bound for kawaramachi station can enter the station at 60 km/h when the schedule is tight.
passenger use
karasuma station is generally used by passengers bound for kyoto station of the west japan railway company(jr west)or kintetsu railways,via the kyoto municipal subway.
the number of passengers per day in fiscal year 2003 was about 39,567(according to the kyoto prefecture statistics report).
this is the largest number among the stations on the hankyu kyoto line.
station surroundings
refer to the section of shijo karasuma for information on the station's surroundings and the bus stop.
history
june 17,1963:the station was opened when the section between omiya station(kyoto prefecture)and kawaramachi station(kyoto prefecture)on the kyoto line was extended.
adjacent stations
hankyu railway
■kyoto main line
limited express
katsura station-karasuma station-kawaramachi station(kyoto prefecture)
commuter limited express/rapid express/semi express/local
omiya station(kyoto prefecture)-karasuma station-kawaramachi station
