yoshitomi station(kyoto prefecture)
located in yagi-cho,nantan city of kyoto prefecture,yoshitomi station is a stop on the san'in main line(sagano line)of west japan railway company(jr west).
the station-name telegraph code is 'フチヨシ.'
both icoca and j-thru cards can be used at this station(refer to the icoca paragraph concerning mutually usable ic cards),but the tickets gates installed are of simplified type and more than one j-thru card can't be processed.
there is another yoshitomi station on the nippo main line in yoshitomi-machi,chikujo-gun,fukuoka prefecture.
station layout
it's an above-ground,unmanned station with two platforms opposite each other and double tracks,where trains can pass each other or pass others.
the station building is shared with the local post office and faces the track no.1 platform.
platform 2 on the opposite side is connected by an overbridge for passengers.
automated ticket vending machines are installed.
automated ticket gates are of the simplified type.
an unmanned station and a platform with a single track used to exist on the opposite northern side of the present site nearer to sonobe.
however,the effective length of that platform was extremely short and even local trains had to pass without stopping during certain time periods(the situation was the same at namikawa station,takatsu station(kyoto prefecture),fuchigaki station and others).
the relocation of the station in order to install facilities and enable trains to pass each other or pass others was implemented at the base of the post-privatization yoshitomi station.
because platform 1 on the side of the station building is the thoroughfare,trains that pass without stopping and trains which stop and don't pass each other or pass others,whether up or down,all go through platform 1.
a train,regardless of whether it is up or down,when stopping at this station to allow a nonstop train coming in from the opposite direction to pass,does so on platform 2.
when trains stop and pass each other at this station,the train heading toward kyoto(inbound)comes in on platform 1 and the train heading toward sonobe(outbound)uses platform 2.
usage status
the number of passengers boarding at this station came to approximately 326 per day in fiscal year 2006.
(source:kyoto prefecture statistical report)
neighboring stations
national route 9
kyoto longitudinal expressway yaginishi interchange
yoshitomi post office(whose building is shared with the station)
yoshitomi-yagi line of the kyoto prefectural route 451
nippon milk community co.,ltd.,kyoto plant
history
july 20,1935:the station was inaugurated as a japan national railways station(passenger traffic only).
august 10,1941:operations were tentatively suspended.
october 1,1951:operations resumed.
april 1,1987:the station became a jr west station due to the split privatization of japan national railways.
neighboring stations
west japan railway company(jr west)
■sagano line(san'in main line)
■ rapid service/■local
yagi station-yoshitomi station-sonobe station
