arashiyama station(keifuku electric railroad co.,ltd.)
arashiyama station,located in saga-tenryuji-tsukurimichii-cho,ukyo ward,kyoto city,is a railway facility of the arashiyama main line operated by keifuku electric railroad co.,ltd.
its station number is a14.
station layout
this station is a ground-level facility having three toothed platforms that serve three tracks.
although platform 1 is exclusive for passengers getting off trains,passengers on board use platform 3(when it's available)to disembark when the train arrives at platform 2.
platform 3 is rarely used other than for trains running directly through to the kitano line.
eki no ashiyu footbath,which uses hot water taken from arashiyama hot spring,is in operation on the platform situated between tracks 1 and 2,and people who've bought tickets(150 yen inclusive of towel,or 100 yen for those holding one-day open tickets for arashiyama)can use it regardless of whether they use the railway or not.
the station building has three stories,and the arashiyama ladies hotel,which was then japan's first hotel exclusively for women,had occupied the second and third floors but in 2002 it ceased business and was converted into the commercial facilities 'arashiyama station hannari-hokkori square,' which houses souvenir shops,japanese pickle shops and restaurants;in october 2007,it was fully refurbished.
station surroundings
also refer to arashiyama.
the street running in front of the station is the main thoroughfare of arashiyama that extends from togetsu-kyo bridge,and both tenryu-ji temple and arashiyama park are located nearby.
arashiyama station of the hankyu corporation(hankyu),saga-arashiyama station of the west japan railway company and saga torokko station of the sagano scenic railway are each within a ten-minute walk.
bus service
kyoto city bus and kyoto bus co.,ltd.,use a different name for their bus stop.
as autumn traffic restriction is imposed throughout the month of november,some buses are required to take a roundabout route and don't stop at this bus stop during the restricted period.
arashiyama tenryuji-mae(in front of arashiyama tenryu-ji temple)(kyoto city bus)
route 11:buses bound for sanjo station(kyoto prefecture)/yamagoe nakacho
route 28:buses bound for kyoto station/daikaku-ji temple
route 93:buses bound for kinrin-shako depot
keifuku arashiyamaeki-mae(in front of keifuku arashiyama station)(kyoto bus co.,ltd.)
route 61:buses bound for daikaku-ji temple/sanjo-keihan
route 62:buses bound for kiyotaki/sanjo-keihan
route 71:buses bound for daikaku-ji temple/kyoto station
route 72:buses bound for kiyotaki/kyoto station
route 83:buses bound for kyoto station/koke-dera temple
route 90:buses bound for nishiyama takao/hankyu arashiyama station
history
during the period from 1929 to 1944,the trains of atagoyama railway would depart from and arrive at this station for people making pilgrimages to atago-jinja shrine(kyoto city),located on mt.atago(kyoto city).
march 25,1910:the station became operational as a facility of the arashiyama electric tramway.
april 2,1918:the station became a facility of kyoto dento,an electric power company,due to the company's merger.
april 12,1929:the station was relocated.
the arashiyama-kiyotaki section of the atagoyama railway came into operation.
march 2,1942:the station became a facility of keifuku electric railroad co.,ltd.,based on the succession of the line.
february 11,1944:the atagoyama railway was abolished.
october 1,1974:the station building,whose second floor and above were occupied by the arashiyama ladies hotel,a hotel exclusive for women,was completed.
june 15,2002:the arashiyama ladies hotel ceased its business.
october 26,2002:commercial facilities called 'arashiyama station hannari-hokkori square,' which utilized the portion of the station building in which the arashiyama ladies hotel had been situated,commenced business.
september 18,2004:the eki no ashiyu footbath was set up within the station premise.
others
this station was chosen in the fourth event to select 100 prominent stations in the kinki region.
the station established sister relations with yufuin station,since both stations boast the eki no ashiyu footbath.
adjacent stations
keifuku electric railroad co.,ltd.
arashiyama main line
randen-saga station(a13)-arashiyama station(a14)
