nishimuko station
nishimuko station,located in muko city,kyoto prefecture,is a stop on the hankyu kyoto line,which is operated by the hankyu railway.
station layout
nishimuko station is an aboveground station with two platforms serving two tracks.
platform numbers aren't assigned.
because no roof is provided over the platform for kawaramachi station for a length of four cars on the osaka side,passengers must be careful when it rains.
the station building(ticket gate)is located on the kawaramachi side of the platforms,which are connected by an underground passage.
station surroundings
the otokuni general office
remains of nagaoka-kyo daigokuden
muko-jinja shrine
the mukomachi post office
katsuyama junior high school,muko city
koyo elementary school,muko city
bus
no bus route enters hankyu nishimuko station.
nearest bus stop:hankyu bus mukomachi yubinkyoku-mae(post office)
route 70:bound for nagaokakyo station via mukodai danchi-mae(mukodai housing complex)and ichimonbashi
passenger use
the number of passengers per day was about 6,520 in fiscal year 2003(according to the kyoto prefecture statistics report).
history
november 1,1928:the station was opened as nishimukomachi station when the section between takatsuki-cho station and saiin station of the shinkeihan railway was opened.
september 15,1930:nishimukomachi station became a stop on the shinkeihan line,operated by the keihan electric railway,as a result of amalgamation.
october 1,1943:nishimukomachi station came to be operated by the keihanshin express railway(the current hankyu railway)as a result of amalgamation.
october 1,1972:the station was renamed nishimuko station under the municipality of mukomachi.
adjacent stations
hankyu railway
kyoto main line
commuter limited express/limited express/rapid express
(commuter)limited express,limited express and rapid express trains don't stop at nishimuko station.
semi express/local
nagaokatenjin station-nishimuko station-higashimuko station
unrealized extension plan
shinkeihan railway,a subsidiary of the keihan electric railway,which constructed the hankyu kyoto line,obtained a license for the line branching off this station to banba,otsu city via fushimi ward and yamashina ward.
the keihan electric railway had a plan to construct the nagoya express railway,a high-speed railway leading further to nagoya city,and obtained a license for the project in 1929.
however,the keihan electric railway entered a period of financial difficulty due to the great depression;thus it became impossible to carry out the plan,and the license expired in 1935.
the platforms at this station are wide because they were designed in consideration of the plan for a branch line.
