fushimi-momoyama station
fushimi-momoyama station,located in 4-chome,ryogae-machi,fushimi ward,kyoto city,kyoto prefecture,is a railway stop on the keihan main line of keihan electric railway.
summary
because it is placed along otesuji-dori street at the center of fushimi ward,express trains stopped at this station before the war.
however,although fushimi-momoyama station is situated at the center of fushimi ward,no express trains,limited express trains,or k-limited express trains stop there due to the following reasons:tanbabashi station,located adjacent to this station,started to be used by nara electric railway(presently the kintetsu kyoto line)as well,so express trains began making stops at tanbabashi station instead of fushimi-momoyama station;chushojima station,the next stop to the south of this station became the junction station for the keihan uji line due to land acquisition and other issues;and the platforms could not support eight-car trains because pedestrian crossings are located to the north and south of the station.
in the past,the roof,pillars and beams were painted pink after the name of this station(the japanese kanji for "momo" in "fushimi-momoyama" means "peach").
station layout
it is placed on the ground,with two separate platforms with two tracks served between them,but the ticket gate and concourse are placed underground.
this station can't be entered from the aburakake-dori street side.
platforms
the length of the platforms,enough to accommodate seven-car trains,is determined by the distance between the otesuji-dori street and aburakake-dori street,which are respectively located on the north and south side of the station.
consequently,no eight-car train can stop at this station.
however,since the length was necessarily extended,a portion of the platform for the trains for demachiyanagi is narrow even though it is said that the platform supports seven-car trains(there is an information board guiding passengers to get on trains on the tanbabashi side).
no platform number is displayed.
station surroundings
approximately 100 meters east of this station there is momoyamagoryo-mae station on the kintetsu kyoto line(where express and semi-express trains stop)(however,the official station to connect the two lines is the adjacent tanbabashi station).
imperial mausoleum of emperor meiji(fushimi-no-momoyama-no-misasagi)
nogi-jinja shrine(kyoto prefecture)
fushimi momoyama-jo castle
gokonomiya-jinja shrine(listed as one of the 100 most excellent natural water sources in japan)
gekkeikan okura sake museum
kizakura kappa country
fushimi ward office
the kyoto kyomachi post office
hello work fushimi(public employment security office)
national route 24
the fushimi-otesuji shopping area
momoyama station(approx.600 m east of this station)
kyoto red cross blood center(a blood donation room at fushimi-otesuji)
bus stops
no bus route operates via fushimi-momoyama station.
the nearest bus stops are gokonomiya-mae(in front of gokonomiya)by kyoto city bus/nishi-otesuji by kyoto city bus,keihan bus,keihan city bus and keihan uji bus.
gokonomiya-mae(in front of gokonomiya)
this bus stop is located not in front of the station but along national route 24,a three-minute walk from the station.
kyoto city bus
route south 8:bound for the east exit of takeda station(kyoto prefecture)(via fujimori-jinja shrine)/for yokooji-shako depot
nishi-otesuji
kyoto city bus
route 19:bound for kyoto station(via keihan kokudo(keihan national road)/for yokooji-shako depot
route 20:bound for miyamae-bashi nishizume(the west end of miyamae bridge)(operated in both directions in a loop)/for yokooji-shako depot through keihan chushojima and fushimi-ko-koen(the fushimi port park)
route 22:bound for minami kogyo-danchi(the south industrial park)/for yokooji-shako depot through keihan chushojima and fushimi-ko-koen(the fushimi port park)
route 81:bound for kyoto station(via takeda-kaido road)/for yokooji-shako depot through keihan chushojima and fushimi-ko-koen(the fushimi port park)
route special 81:bound for the east exit of takeda station(via takeda-kaido road and the east exit of takeda station)/for yokooji-shako depot through keihan chushojima and fushimi-ko-koen(the fushimi port park)
route south 3:bound for the west exit of takeda station/for yokooji-shako depot through keihan chushojima and fushimi-ko-koen(the fushimi port park)
route south 8:bound for the east exit of takeda station(via fujimori-jinja shrine)/for yokooji-shako depot
keihan bus/keihan city bus/keihan uji bus
the buses on path 6 are operated only by keihan bus.
keihan bus yamashina eigyosho(the yamashina business office of keihan bus):bound for the west exit of takeda station/for daigo bus terminal
path 25(jointly operated by keihan city bus and keihan uji bus):bound for keihan-chushojima/for kintetsu okubo
route 23(operated only by keihan uji bus):bound for keihan uji bus uji eigyosho(the uji business office of keihan uji bus)
history
april 15,1910:it started the operation as fushimi station concurrently with the launch of the keihan main line.
november 11,1915:its name was changed to fushimi-momoyama station.
april 1,1916:express trains began making stops at this station.
before the war,express trains always stopped at the station.
in the final days of the war,the operation of express trains was stopped,and when the operation of express trains restarted in 1946,the express trains began making stops at tanbabashi station instead of here.
october 1,1943:due to the merger of the companies concerned,it became a station of the keihanshin express railway(presently hankyu railway).
december 1,1949:due to the division of the company,it became a station of keihan electric railway.
april 1,1962:the momoyama store of the keihan supermarket(the present momoyama store of keihan the store)was opened on the east side of this station.
december 9,1973:the station house was moved underground.
january,2008:two new elevators were installed,and the process of making the premises barrier-free,such as with the installation of a multipurpose lavatory,was completed.
others
before both of the lines started using tanbabashi station in 1945,the keihan line and the nara electric railway line(present kintetsu kyoto line)were interconnected at this station and momoyamagoryo-mae station.
at that time,express trains on the keihan line stopped at this station but not at tanbabashi station.
before keihan the store ceased operation,the announcement of 'keihan the store' was made additionally,succeeding the announcement of the station name in the train cars.
adjacent stations
keihan electric railway
keihan main line
k-limited express/limited express/rapid express
no stops are made at this station.
semi express/local
chushojima station-fushimi-momoyama station-tanbabashi station
