nodagawa station
nodagawa station,located in koaza kakiuchi aza shimoyamada,yosano-cho,yosano-gun,kyoto prefecture,is a railway facility of the miyazu line operated by kitakinki tango railway(ktr).
this station was called tango yamada station while the line was operated by japan national railways and the west japan railway company(jr west),but it was renamed when the miyazu line was transferred to the kitakinki tango railway(nodagawa-cho was the old name of yosano-cho).
until 1985,kaya railway operated between this station and kaya.
station layout
this station is a ground station having two platforms--an island-type platform and a separate-type platform--to serve three tracks.
some trains turn back at this station in the nighttime,except on saturdays and holidays.
station surroundings
head office of tango kairiku kotsu co.,ltd.
nodagawa-cho forest park
kyoto prefecture nodagawa youth center
bus service
tango kairiku kotsu co.,ltd.
buses bound for miyazu station and kasamatsu cable-shita(kono shrine and ichinomiya-sanbashi-mae)via iwataki-guchi station
buses bound for mineyama station and kyoto kyoei gakuen junior and senior high school(fukuchiyama city)(via fukuchiyama station)
kaya fellow line bus
buses bound for kaya steam locomotive square
passenger use
the average daily number of passengers in fiscal year 2006 was 271.
(according to the kyoto prefecture statistics report)
history
july 31,1925:the station was activated when the miyazu-tango yamada section of the mineyama line,then operated by japan national railways,became operational.
december 5,1926:the kaya railway came into operation.
august 10,1932:the station became a facility of the miyazu line,operated by japan national railways,due to the change in the line name.
may 1,1985:the kaya railway was abolished.
april 1,1987:the station became a facility of jr west due to the division and privatization of japan national railways.
april 1,1990:the miyazu line was transferred to kitakinki tango railway,and accordingly this station became one of its facilities.
at the same time,the station was renamed as nodagawa station.
adjacent stations
kitakinki tango railway
miyazu line
iwatakiguchi station-nodagawa station-tango-omiya station
