matsunoodera station
matsunoodera station is a railway facility on the obama line of the west japan railway company(jr west),and is located in aza-kissaka-mubanchi,maizuru city,kyoto prefecture.
station layout
it is a ground station having only a one-side,one-track platform.
the station building has been located in the present site since its inauguration in 1922,but it's now an unmanned facility.
while the express 'hashidate(train)' was running,the inbound and outbound trains crossed each other at this station;however,when the jr timetable for the period 1987-2000 was revised on october 2,1999,the station ceased to be the passing point of the inbound and outbound trains and remained only with the function of a(railway)block and junction.
subsequently,with the electrification of the obama line,the station became a straight "through-track" station after its railway signals and turnouts were removed.
concurrently,the platform was elevated.
passenger use
the average daily number of passengers was about 33 in fiscal year 2006.
(according to the kyoto prefecture statistics report)
the name derived from matsunoo-dera temple(maizuru city),which is the 29th of the 33 temples that are visited during the kansai kannon pilgrimage;however,since the walk to the temple takes about 40 minutes,being located in the middle of the mountain,most visitors reach the temple by car,or they may take a route bus or a taxi from jr maizuru station.
consequently,relatively few temple visitors use this station.
station surroundings
national route 27
kyoto prefecture route 563:matsunoodera-teishajo line
kyoto prefecture route 564:matsunoo-kissaka line
matsunoo-dera temple(maizuru city)(no.29 pilgrim stamp office of the 33 temples of saigoku):three kilometers northeast
mt.aoba(kyoto prefecture/fukui prefecture)
kongo-in temple:located 1.5 km southwest
lawson
history
december 20,1922:its opening was concurrent with the launch of operations on the japan national railways obama line between wakasa-takahama station and higashi-maizuru station.
general station
november 1986:it became an unmanned station.
april 1,1987:japan national railways designated it as a station of the west japan railway and japan freight railway companies.
march 22,1997:the designation as a freight station was revoked.
freight transport service was carried out using boxcars,on the private siding approximately 6 km toward the maizuru plant of nippon sheet glass co.,ltd.,facing maizuru port.
april 1,1999:the station of jr-f(for freight service)became disused.
adjacent stations
west japan railway company(jr west)
obama line
aonogo station-matsunoodera station-higashi-maizuru station
