kurama station
kurama station,located in kurama honmachi,sakyo ward,kyoto city,kyoto prefecture,is a stop on the kurama line,which is operated by eizan electric railway.
kurama station is the last stop on the kurama line.
kurama station is the northernmost station among the stations at which kansai thru pass can be used.
connecting railway lines
kurama-dera temple,a religious corporation
mount kurama cable railway,sanmon station(about five minutes on foot after passing the sanmon(temple gate)(nio-mon gate).
station layout
kurama station is an aboveground station with one island platform serving two tracks.
the entrance and exit of the station are separate,and a toilet facility is provided just outside the exit.
automatic ticket gates are in place at the entrance and the exit.
the station is a wooden building in a historical temple style.
the station is manned at hours other than the early morning and late evening.
the automatic ticket machine is in operation from 9:30 to 16:30(this time period is extended during the tourist seasons).
during periods in which the station is manned,the automatic ticket gate at the entrance is roped off to prevent anyone from entering the station until all the passengers have left the train arriving from demachiyanagi station.
at times in which the station isn't manned,tickets are purchased and collected on the train in the manner of an unmanned station.
the station building is kept closed,and passengers enter the platform from the passage beside the exit,which is used during the manned period by going around the left side of the building.
the front of the station and the platform are essentially on the same level.
the automatic ticket gate is sufficiently wide to allow a person in a wheelchair to enter.
the automatic ticket gate at the exit is a standard type,but a person in a wheelchair can enter the platform through a passage by the ticket gate.
in front of the station is a statue of tengu(the braggart),while in the station are the top part and the driving wheel of the dena type 21 car,which was operated by eizan electric railway and traveled on this line for many years.
platform 1
kurama line(for takaragaike station and demachiyanagi station)
platform 2
kurama line(for takaragaike station and demachiyanagi station)
station surroundings
the station has a square(although it is small)in front of it.
half of the square is a car parking space near to which are the statue of tengu(the braggart)and souvenir shops,where the courtesy bus to kurama onsen hot spring arrives and departs.
a short walk on the kurama kaido road brings one to a temple gate of kurama-dera temple,which is toward the left.
various old houses can be seen along the road.
they form a narrow village between the mountains;a bit of farmland exists as well,mainly behind the houses on the opposite side of the station.
even today,forestry is the major industry other than tourism,but there are also commuters who take the 40-to 50-minute trip to the center of kyoto city.
kurama-dera temple
mt.kurama
yuki-jinja shrine
the kurama post office
kurama onsen hot spring
kyoto prefectural route 38:kyoto hirogawara miyama line(kurama kaido road)
bus stop
kurama(reachable via the prefectural route by walking from the station)
kyoto bus co.,ltd.route 32:demachiyanagi station-kitaoji station-kurama-hirogawara(year-round operation)
kyoto bus co.,ltd.,route 95: 'kitayama birdie' ohara-kurama(operated on holidays between spring equinox day and november 30)
history
october 20,1929:a provisional kurama station was opened,being operated by the kurama electric railway.
december 20,1929:kurama station(the current station)was opened under the operation of the kurama electric railway.
the provisional kurama station was discontinued.
august 1,1942:the station came to be operated by the keifuku electric railroad co.,ltd.,as a result of amalgamation.
april 1,1986:the station came under the operation of the eizan electric railway due to the reorganization of companies.
others
the station was chosen in the first selection of 100 famous stations in the kinki region.
a 1/150th scale paper model kit of the station has been sold by the kyoto mokei as one of 'showa no ekisha series(post-house in showa series).'
adjacent stations
eizan electric railway
kurama line
kibuneguchi station-kurama station
