amino station
amino station,located in amino-cho,tango city,kyoto prefecture,is a stop on the miyazu line,which is operated by kitakinki tango railway(ktr).
station layout
it is situated at the ground level,with an island platform serving two tracks as well as a platform serving a tracks.
the motif of the station house is a yacht coursing through the sea.
the ticket-related work is entrusted to officers at the amino-cho tourist association.
station surroundings
kotobiki-hama beach(reached by getting off at the kotobiki-hama beach bus stop of tango kairiku kotsu co.,ltd.)
kotobikihama singing sands heritage center(reached by getting off at the kotobiki-hama beach bus stop of tankai bus)
tango ajiwai-no-sato(eating places in tango):a michi-no-eki(a roadside rest area)
the amino branch of kyoto bank
amity tango:the(incorporated)local industry center in the tango area
buses
tango kairiku kotsu co.,ltd.
taxis
nihon kotsu co.,ltd.(fukuchiyama city)
passenger use
in fiscal year 2006,the average daily number of persons who boarded trains at this station was 356.
(according to the kyoto prefecture statistics report)
with many bathing beaches located in the vicinity,this station buzzed with activity,particularly in the summer.
many people also use this station during the winter months,as they come to eat crab.
all limited express trains on the line stop at this station.
history
december 25,1926:japan national railways started operating between mineyama and amino on the minetoyo line,which was run by japan national railways.
august 10,1932:the minetoyo and mineyama lines were renamed as the miyazu line.
april 1,1987:it became a station of the west japan railway company(jr west)due to the division and privatization of japan national railways.
april 1,1990:the miyazu line was transferred to kitakinki tango railway,and it became a station of the railway company.
others
this station was chosen in the second event to select 100 prominent stations in the kinki region.
adjacent stations
kitakinki tango railway
miyazu line
mineyama station-amino station-kitsu-onsen station
