kitaoji station
kitaoji station,located in koyama kita kamifusa-cho,kita ward(kyoto city),kyoto city,kyoto prefecture,is a railway facility of the karasuma line of kyoto municipal subway.
its station number is k04.
station layout
this station is an underground station having a platform for two tracks.
the station is equipped with escalators,elevators and toilets(toilets for the handicapped are available).
ticket gates are located on the north and south sides of the station,but station staff are positioned only at the south ticket gate.
station surroundings
the station is situated underground at the north side of the crossing of kitaoji-dori street(national route 367)and karasuma-dori street,and the station building is united with kitaoji town,the complex situated aboveground.
the interior of kitaoji town
kitaoji bus terminal of kyoto city bus and kyoto city bus karasuma eigyosho(karasuma business office)(shown below)
kitaoji vivre(commercial facilities)
kyoto city north culture hall
otani university
otani university junior college
ritsumeikan elementary school
the kyoto botanical garden(about one km away,across the kamo-gawa river(yodo-gawa river system))
shopping districts are located along karasuma-dori and kitaoji-dori streets.
kitaoji bus terminal
this is one of the major bus terminals of kyoto city bus,and is situated on the basement floor directly above kitaoji station.
buses bound for the rakuhoku sightseeing area,including kyoto sangyo university,kamigamo-jinja shrine,kinkaku-ji temple,shugakuin(imperial villa)and takano,depart from and arrive at this terminal.
this bus terminal used to be located on the ground floor,but with the completion of kitaoji town in 1995 it was taken underground.
currently,there is one platform for getting off and two platforms for getting on(the red and blue platforms,respectively).
it is somewhat inconvenient to move from one platform to another because,in order to do so,one must use the passageway situated one floor below.
in the past,buses bound for iwakura/ohara operated by kyoto bus co.,ltd.(some buses were operated by kyoto city bus)would depart from and arrive at this bus terminal,but currently they depart from and arrive at kokusaikaikan station.
additionally,there are bus stops,called 'kitaojieki-mae' on the east and south sides of the crossing of karasuma-dori and kitaoji-dori streets;at the bus stop on the east side,buses of kyoto city bus(depending on the route,some buses running west don't stop)and those of kyoto bus co.,ltd.,whose terminal is demachiyanagi station(both directions)make stops.
at the bus stop on the south side,the route 37 buses of kyoto city bus stop.
history
may 19,1981:when the karasuma line came into operation,this station was established as its facility of origin.
october 24,1990:the kitayama-kitaoji section came into operation as an extension of the line,and this station became a midway station.
april 1,2007:pitapa became available.
adjacent stations
kyoto municipal subway
karasuma line
kitayama station(kyoto prefecture)(k03)-kitaoji station(k04)-kuramaguchi station(k05)
