kokusaikaikan station
kokusaikaikan station,located in iwakura,sakyo ward,kyoto,city kyoto prefecture,is a terminal on the karasuma line,which is operated by kyoto municipal subway.
the station number is k01.
the station became operational when the third session of the conference of the parties was held at kyoto international conference center.
station layout
the station is located underground,with a platform serving two tracks.
only one ticket gate is provided.
station surroundings
kyoto international conference center is located on the south side of this station.
takaragaike park and grand prince hotel are located nearby.
new housing areas are situated on the north and east sides(because they're included in urbanization-restricted areas,the construction of large-scale developments,such as high-rise condominiums,is prohibited and detached houses or low-rise housing complexes predominate there).
doshisha high school is located north of the station,across takaragaike-dori street.
suburban-type stores are found along takaragaike-dori street.
iwakura station(kyoto prefecture)on the kurama line,operated by eizan electric railway,is a bit distant but still reachable on foot(about 10-minute walk to the north).
going to the east along the road in front of the station,one can reach hachiman-mae station(kyoto prefecture)on the kurama line,operated by eizan electric railway.
entsu-ji temple(kyoto prefecture)is located 1.5 km west of the station.
bus terminals in the iwakura area
on the ground level above the station,a taxi terminal and bus terminal were established when the station became operational,and provided terminal functions for buses on kyoto bus routes in the directions of iwakura and ohara(kyoto prefecture)(there are also routes transferred from kyoto city bus;
even at present,buses on a city bus route starting at iwakura soshajo(bus yard),placed on the west side of this station,stop here).
in the tourist seasons,significant numbers of people use buses arriving at and departing from this terminal in order to avoid the congestion in central kyoto.
history
june 3,1997:this station became active when the karasuma line started operating between kokusaikaikan and kitayama.
april 1,2007:pitapa became accepted
others
this station was chosen in the third event to select 100 prominent stations in the kinki region.
adjacent stations
kyoto municipal subway
karasuma line
kokusaikaikan station(k01)-matsugasaki station(kyoto prefecture)(k02)
