iwatakiguchi station
iwatakiguchi station,located in suzu,miyazu city,kyoto prefecture,is a stop on the miyazu line,which is operated by the kitakinki tango railway.
the station resides in miyazu city but is called 'iwatakiguchi station,' meaning the entrance to iwataki-cho,since the station serves as a gateway to the old iwataki-cho(the current yosano-cho),which didn't have a train station.
only local and rapid trains stop at the station.
before the jr schedule revision of march 16,1996,limited express 'tanba(train)' nos.1 and 2(these trains run to nishi-maizuru station as local trains),no.5(this train runs as a local train from nishi-maizuru station),nos.8,and 9 would stop at iwatakiguchi station.
station layout
it is an aboveground station whose track extends westward from the direction of nishi-maizuru station,and has a platform to the north.
the station isn't manned.
the station building was completed in march 1992,so it's relatively new.
when the station was opened by japan national railways,it was manned and had a facility where inbound and outbound trains could pass one another,but it was later removed.
in the era of japan national railways and jr,tickets were sold at a tobacco store in the japanese inn edo-ya(a tobacco store and inn),which was located in front of the station.
bus services
iwatakiguchi-eki' (iwatakiguchi station)bus stop of the tango kairiku kotsu co.,ltd.,is adjacent to the station;since october 1,2006,tankai bus has entered iwatakiguchi station,thereby improving the connection between the bus and the kitakinki tango railway,because passengers can take a bus right after leaving the station.
the old 'iwatakiguchi-ekimae' (in front of iwatakiguchi station)bus stop was renamed 'suzu.'
ine line
for kami-miyazu:bound for ine-yubinkyoku-mae(ine post office)
kamanyu line
for kami-miyazu:bound for kamanyu
kyoga-misaki line
for kami-miyazu:bound for kyoga-misaki cape
mineyama line
for kami-miyazu:bound for mineyama-ekimae(in front of mineyama station)
taxi
the iwatakiguchi office of kyoto taxi co.,ltd.
station surroundings
the area in front of the station is residential.
bus stop: 'suzu,' of tankai bus
the old 'iwatakiguchi-ekimae' was renamed 'suzu' on october 1,2006 and is a two-minute walk from the station.
in addition to the regular bus service,the expressway bus service is operated for osaka.
kaya fellow line 'iwatakiguchi-ekimae'
for kaya steam locomotive square:bound for miyazu station
kyoto prefectural police,miyazu police station,yoshizu police satellite office(adjacent to the station;near the station)
yosano-cho(the current iwataki-cho)town hall
kurhaus iwataki
hashidate bay hotel
kyoto hokuto shinkin bank,iwataki-chuo branch
suzuhiko-jinja shrine
passenger use
the average daily number of passengers in fiscal 2006 was 96.
(according to the kyoto prefecture statistics report)
history
july 31,1925:the station opened.
april 1,1987:consequent upon the division and privatization of japan national railways,the station came under the ownership the west japan railway company(jr west).
april 1,1990:the miyazu line was transferred to the kitakinki tango railway,whereby the station came under the ownership of the kitakinki tango railway.
march 1992:the station building was refurbished to its current state.
october 1,2006:the tankai bus began entering the station,thereby improving the connection between the kitakinki tango railway and the bus.
adjacent stations
miyazu line
amanohashidate station-iwatakiguchi station-nodagawa station
