hachimanmae station(kyoto prefecture)
hachimanmae station,located in the sakyo ward of kyoto city,is a stop on the kurama line of the eizan-dentetsu(eizan electric railway).
station layout
it's an unmanned station with two platforms serving two tracks that face each other.
each platform has two entrances:one on the south side(the demachiyanagi side)and another on the north side(the kurama side).
on the north side of the station is a level crossing on the open road,while on the south side of the station is a crossing that links the station's platforms.
the roofs almost entirely cover the platforms.
meanwhile,the fence and the columns supporting the roofs are painted in vermilion colors,which have to do with the neighboring miyake hachimangu shrine from which the station's name originated.
neither of the platforms(inbound or outbound line)is made barrier-free.
access from the track level to the platform level can be made only by way of stairs(refer to the image),so caretakers are needed for persons in wheelchairs.
station surroundings
the station is located in a residential area several tens of meters to the west of the open road from the iwakura-yamabana line of the kyoto prefectural route 105.
doshisha high school
miyake hachimangu shrine
miyakehachiman branch,bank of kyoto
kishimoto shoten bookstore(commuter tickets sold on commission)
bus stop
hachimanmae(a bus stop located on the prefectural route near the station)
kyoto bus
southbound・・・bound for kokusai-kaikan station,kitaoji station,demachiyanagi station,shijo-kawaramachi and kyoto station:northbound・・・bound for jissoin temple and iwakura muramatsu
history
december 1,1928:the station opened under the ownership of the kurama electric railway.
august 1,1942:the station came under the ownership of the keifuku electric railroad due to the amalgamation.
november 10,1944:the line between yamabana station(currently takaragaike station)and the nikenchaya station(kyoto prefecture),including hachimanmae station,became a single track for the delivery of supplies for the war.
april 9,1958:the line between takaragaike station and iwakura station(kyoto prefecture)became a double track again.
april 1,1986:the station came under the ownership of the eizan electric railway due to the reorganization of companies.
neighboring stations
eizan electric railway
kurama line
takaragaike station-hachimanmae station-iwakura station(kyoto prefecture)
