marutamachi station(keihan line)
marutamachi station,located in higashi-maruta-cho,sakyo ward,kyoto city,kyoto prefecture,is a stop of the keihan oto line,which is operated by keihan electric railway.
it is scheduled that the station's name will be changed to jingu-marutamachi station on october 19,2008,when the keihan nakanoshima line starts its operation.
station layout
it is an underground station,with an island platform serving two tracks.
it is located under marutacho-bashi-higashizume(the east end of marutacho bridge)and under the kawabata marutamachi crossing.
with two stories underground,the ticket gate and concourse are provided on the first basement level and the platform on the second basement level.
the ticket gate is provided at one location.
being the station nearest to kyoto university hospital and university hospital,kyoto prefectural university of medicine,this station was provided,even at the very start,with barrier-free measures such as two elevators for physically handicapped persons(one between the ground level and the concourse and the other between the concourse area inside the gate and platform),a multipurpose lavatory,a braille guide map and a braille fare table.
marutamachi station,having the same name as this station,on the karasuma line of the kyoto municipal subway,is located approximately one kilometer away.
platform
*the platform portion for each of the tracks has a length sufficient to accommodate an eight-car train.
no announcement is made for the number of cars of incoming trains,either for inbound trains or outbound trains.
station surroundings
the station is located under kawabata-dori street,slightly north of the crossing between kawabata-dori street and marutamachi-dori street.
the kamo-gawa river(yodo-gawa river system)flows on the west side of the station,and marutamachi-bashi bridge crosses over the river.
the area around the station is a residential district in which many one-room apartments are located.
the east side of the station
the northeast direction
the southern area of kyoto university yoshida campus--demachiyanagi station is nearer to the northern area of the campus.
kyoto university hospital
goethe-institut kyoto
kyoto kyoiku bunka center(the education and cultural center of kyoto)
along marutamachi-dori street
tenrikyo kawaramachi daikyokai(grand church)
kyoto marutamachi church,the united church of christ in japan
kyoto tosuikai swimming club
kumano-jinja shrine
the southeast direction
lake biwa canal
the ebisukawa(electric)power plant
the kyoto marutamachi kawabata post office
the okazaki district
a walk of approximately 15 minutes along lake biwa canal
although it's located nearer to higashiyama station on kyoto municipal subway's tozai line(kyoto prefecture),the means by which to access it from this station is also announced during sightseeing seasons.
heian-jingu shrine
kyoto kaikan hall
kyoto international exhibition hall(miyako-messe)
kyoto prefectural library
okazaki park
kyoto municipal museum of art
the west side of this station(the opposite side of the kamo-gawa river)
either of them can be reached on foot with 10 to 20 minutes.
kyoto prefectural university of medicine
university hospital,kyoto prefectural university of medicine
kyoto gyoen national garden/kyoto imperial palace
kyoto city library of historical documents
the kyoto office of the mainichi newspapers
gyogan-ji temple(kodo temple)
shimo-goryo-jinja shrine
kyoto district court
bus stops
bus stops are located at the crossing between marutamachi-dori street and kawabata-dori street,with a different name given for each stop of the kyoto municipal transportation bureau and kyoto bus co.,ltd.
(the same name, 'kawabata marutamachi,' was given to each of them until 1997.)
marutamachi keihan-mae
kyoto municipal transportation bureau
route 65:bound for iwakura soshajo(via kumano-jinja shrine)/in the direction of shijo karasuma(via marutamachi station(kyoto municipal subway))
route 93:bound for kinrin-shako depot(via marutamachi-dori street)/for saga arashiyama(via marutamachi-dori street)
route 93:bound for kinrin-shako depot(via marutamachi-dori street)/for saga arashiyama(via marutamachi-dori street)
route 93:bound for kinrin-shako depot(via marutamachi-dori street)/for saga arashiyama(via marutamachi-dori street)
kawabata marutamachi
kyoto bus
history
october 5,1989:the station started operations simultaneously with the oto line.
the autumn of 2008:the station's name is scheduled to be changed from marutamachi station to jingu-marutamachi station.
adjacent stations
keihan electric railway
oto line
k-limited express/limited express
no stops are made at this station.
express/sub-express/local
sanjo station(kyoto prefecture)-marutamachi station-demachiyanagi station
in the daytime,only six local trains an hour stop at this station.
