shijo-omiya station
shijo-omiya station,located in shijo-omiya-cho,shimogyo ward,kyoto city,kyoto prefecture,is a stop on the arashiyama main line,which is operated by keifuku electric railroad co.,ltd.
the station number is a1.
the station house of omiya station(kyoto prefecture)of hankyu railway is situated under the shijo-omiya crossing.
station layout
the station is located on the ground level at the southwest corner of the shijo-omiya crossing.
three comb-type platforms serving two tracks are provided.
station surroundings
omiya station(kyoto prefecture)on the hankyu kyoto main line
(for information on bus stops,refer to omiya station.)
kyoto municipal rakuchu elementary school
former kyoto municipal ikubun junior high school(closed at the end of march 2007 due to the integration of schools)
the kyoto shijoomiya post office
the headquarters of keifuku electric railroad co.,ltd.
shijo-dori street
omiya-dori street
koin-dori street
history
march 25,1910:this station started operating as a facility of arashiyama electric tramway.
april 2,1918:the companies concerned merged,and it became a station of kyoto dento,an electric power company.
march 2,1942:the tramway was transferred to keifuku electric railroad co.,ltd.,and this station became a facility of that company.
adjacent stations
keifuku electric railroad
arashiyama main line
shijo-omiya station(a1)-sai station(a3)
in the past,mibu station existed between this station and sai station,but its operation was discontinued on july 11,1971,because few people used it.
the distance between this station and sai station along the railroad is 1.4 km,making it the longest of those between adjacent stations on the line of keifuku electric railroad.
in the system of giving a number to each station,which started in march 2007,a2 has not been assigned to any station,and it is considered that a plan to build a new station between this station and sai station(around the site where the former mibu station once existed)may exist,but no specific plan has been devised.
