jr-ogura station
jr-ogura station,located in ogura-cho,uji city,kyoto prefecture,is a stop on the nara line,which is operated by the west japan railway company(jr west).
station layout
situated at a curved section of the line,jr-ogura station is an aboveground station having two separate platforms serving two tracks.
the station building stands on sloping ground,so the concourse and ticket gates are located below the platforms.
as seen from the western entrance,the stop has the appearance of an elevated railway station.
additionally,the operations of the station are consigned to jr west kotsu service.
icoca,j-through card and pitapa card,which are all ic cards,are available for fare payment at this station(pitapa card is issued by surutto kansai association and is mutually compatible with icoca).
passenger use
approximately 1,778 passengers used the station each day in fiscal 2006.
(according to the kyoto prefecture statistics report)
station surroundings
ogura station on the kintetsu kyoto line,which is operated by kintetsu corporation.
uji city ogura elementary school
uji kindergarten
the uji nanryo post office
kyoei seicha co.,ltd.
on the south side of the station there is nanryo-cho,a newly developed residential area,where about 850 households exist on each block of approximately 165 square meters,and this residential area was developed by the former seibu urban development corporation in or around 1970.
initially,the residents had inconvenience in daily life,but nowadays they don't because they have daini okamoto general hospital and a fire station both nearby,and their shopping has also become more convenient since they have joshin denki co.,ltd.,home center kohnan within a walking distance of ten minutes.
a walk of seven or eight minutes takes one from the residential area to ogura station on the kintetsu kyoto line.
history
march 3,2001:jr-ogura station opened to coincide with the doubling of the jr west track in the section between uji station and shinden station.
origin of the station's name
the name "jr-ogura" is intended to distinguish this station from ogura station on the kintetsu kyoto line,which is operated by kintetsu corporation.
it is also intended to distinguish the station from kokura station(fukuoka prefecture)on the sanyo shinkansen,which is operated by the west japan railway company.
the use of "jr" as a prefix to the station's name is characteristic of jr west.
adjacent stations
west japan railway company(jr west)
nara line
miyakoji rapid service
nonstop
rapid/regional rapid/local
uji station(jr west)-jr-ogura station-shinden station(kyoto prefecture)
