kyoto seikadaimae station
kyoto seikadaimae station,located in the sakyo ward of kyoto city,is a stop on the kurama line of the eizan-dentetsu(eizan electric railway).
among the stations of the eizan electric railway,this one is the most beautiful.
station layout
it's an unmanned station with two platforms serving two tracks that face each other.
the roofs cover the entirety of the platforms,but the designs of the roof,columns and walls differ by platform.
each platform has an entrance.
the station is usually unmanned and the station staff is at work during the busy university season(particularly during enrollment ceremonies and entrance examinations).
staff rooms are located adjacent to the entrances.
automatic ticket gates are installed on the kurama station-bound platform.
some of the commutation tickets are sold at the gasendo on the university campus.
two platforms are connected by 'palladio-bashi bridge,' which was built by the kyoto seika university based on the truss bridge designed by andrea palladio,an italian architect.
the route from the outbound platform to the residential area,and from the inbound platform to the front gate of the university can be accessed by ramps for barrier-free design,but since only the 'palladio-bashi bridge' connects the platforms and there is no level crossing in the station or near the station,persons in wheelchairs need to go the long way around.
station surroundings
the station is located at the base of the slope of the mountain where kyoto seika university lies.
the inbound platform partly touches the slope of the mountain.
as the name shows,the station is the nearest one to kyoto seika university,and it is a shorter distance from the station to the center of the campus than it is from the center of the university campus to its front gate.
the station literally serves the university.
the other side of the station consisted of croplands in a narrow valley.
recently,with the progress of land readjustment,more residential buildings have been built,but numerous croplands and parking areas remain.
kyoshaku-ji temple(suzume-dera)
yoritomo-bashi bridge
kyoto university enshurin(forest science)
research institute for humanity and nature
history
september 21,1989:the station opened.
originally,the platform was a temporary one built at the current location of the inbound line.
september 28,1990:the line between iwakura station(kyoto prefecture)and nikenchaya station(kyoto prefecture),including kyoto seikadaimae station,became a double track again.
the current station was completed.
neighboring stations
eizan electric railway
kurama line
kino station-kyoto seikadaimae station-nikenchaya station(kyoto prefecture)
