marutamachi station(kyoto municipal subway)
marutamachi station,located in nakagyo ward,kyoto city,kyoto prefecture,is a stop on the karasuma line,which is operated by kyoto municipal subway.
the station number is k07.
the station is named after marutamachi-dori street,which crosses the karasuma line.
station layout
this station is located in the underground of the crossing of karasuma-dori and marutamachi-dori streets,and is provided with an island platform serving two tracks.
as for the entrance/exit gates,a manned one is located on the north side or on the kokusaikaikan(the international conference hall)side and an unmanned one is found on the south side(the takeda side).
exits 1 to 4 are placed nearer to the manned entrance/exit gate,exits 6 and 7 are nearer to the unmanned entrance/exit gate,and exit 5 is midway between the gates.
station surroundings
for the karasuma-marutamachi crossing,use any of the exit 1 to exit 4 on the north side or the imadegawa/kokusaikaikan side.
the area northeast of the station
kyoto gyoen national garden-kyoto imperial palace
kyoto district court and kyoto summary court
the marutamachi police box of the gojo police station
the area northwest of the station
kyoto prefecture
the kyoto prefectural police station
kyoto broadcasting system company,limited(kbs)
the high school and junior high school of heian jogakuin st.agnes school
kyoto architectural college
kyoto second red cross hospital
the area southeast of the station
the headquarters of the kyoto shimbun co.,ltd.
nikkei,inc.,and the kyoto branch of television osaka,inc.
heartpia kyoto
kyoto city kodomo miraikan(a hall dedicated to children and their future)
the nakagyo moegi kindergarten,run by kyoto city
kyoto orthodox church
the area southwest of the station
kyoto chamber of commerce and industry(kcci)
the koromonotana ebisugawa post office
the seiki headquarters building
marutamachi station(keihan),on the keihan oto line,is located about one kilometer from this station.
the name of marutamachi station on the keihan line was scheduled to be changed to jingu-marutamachi station on october 19,2008.
bus stops
it is located at the crossing between marutamachi-dori street and karasuma-dori street.
it's nearest to exit 1.
kyoto municipal transportation bureau
route 10(kyoto city bus):bound for sanjo keihan through kawaramachi station(kyoto prefecture)and shijo station(keihan)(via kawaramachi and marutamachi)/utano and yamagoe(via kitano tenman-gu shrine)
route 65(kyoto city bus):bound for the iwakura-soshajo bus yard(via kumano-jinja shrine)/shijo station(kyoto municipal subway)(via karasuma-dori street)
route 93(kyoto city bus):bound for the kinrin-shako depot(via higashitenno-cho)/saga arashiyama(via emmachi station)
route 202(kyoto city bus):in the direction of the kujo-shako depot(via kumano-jinja shrine)/in the direction of nishinokyo emmachi and nishioji kujo
route 204(kyoto city bus):in the direction of ginkaku-ji temple(via higashitenno-cho)/in the direction of nishinokyo emmachi and kinkaku-ji temple
route 51(kyoto city bus)
history
may 29,1981:this station was established when karasuma line started operating between kitaoji and kyoto.
november 14-16,2005:the use of the lockers and exit 1 of the station was stopped corresponding to the kyoto visit of u.s.president george w.bush.
april 1,2007:pitapa(icoca)became usable.
adjacent stations
kyoto municipal subway
karasuma line
imadegawa station(k06)-marutamachi station(k07)-karasuma oike station(k08)
