kumihama station
kumihama station,located in kumihama-cho,kyotango city,kyoto prefecture,is a stop on the miyazu line,which is operated by the kitakinki tango railway(ktr).
all trains stop at this station,including the 'tango explorer' and 'tango discovery' limited express trains.
before the schedule revision of march 18,2007 for the west japan railway company(jr west)and the ktr,many of these limited express trains would arrive at and depart from this station.
currently,the limited express trains arrive at and depart from toyooka station.
station layout
kumihama station is an aboveground station with two separate platforms(including an island platform)serving three tracks.
the station building was built based on the prefectural office building of kumihama prefecture,which was established by haihan-chiken(abolition of feudal domains and establishment of prefectures)in 1871,and has been fondly referred to as the 'memorial gate kumihama.'
a morning market is held in the station building on sunday mornings,at which time the station is crowded with people.
station surroundings
kyotango city hall,kumihama government office(the old kumihama town office)
the kumihama post office
kyotango municipal kumihama elementary school
kyotango municipal kumihama junior high school
kuminohama hot spring
kyoto bank kumihama branch
kyoto hokuto shinkin bank kumihama branch
kumihama seaside onsen hot spring
wealthy merchant:inaba-honke(inaba head family)
take the tango kairiku kotsu bus or kyotango city bus from the station for 'inaba-honke' (old doi bus stop).
take the zentan bus for 'doi.'
seno udon-ten(seno udon noodle shop)
bus
zentan bus
for toyooka hospital
tango kairiku kotsu co.,ltd.
for mineyama station
a regular tourist bus service
a rapid bus service
kyotango city bus
passenger use
the average daily number of passengers in fiscal year 2006 was 123.
(according to the kyoto prefecture statistics report)
the station is generally used by students in the morning and evening,and mainly by residents at other times.
in some cases,it takes less time to reach kyoto or osaka from the station via toyooka station than via fukuchiyama station,etc.
history
december 15,1929:the station was opened when the section between toyooka and kumihama on the minetoyo line was opened by japan national railways.
august 10,1932:the entire minetoyo line was completed with the opening of the section between tango kitsu station(the current kitsu-onsen station)and kumihama station.
the minetoyo line was renamed as the miyazu line.
april 1,1987:the station came to be owned by jr west due to the division and privatization of japan national railways.
april 1,1990:the miyazu line was transferred to the kitakinki tango railway,whereby the station came to be owned by the kitakinki tango railway.
adjacent stations
kitakinki tango railway
miyazu line
koyama station-kumihama station-tajimamie station
