chayama station(kyoto prefecture)
chayama station,located in sakyo ward,kyoto city,is a stop on the eizan main line,which is operated by eizan electric railway co.,ltd.(eiden).
the name "chayama" originates from the mountain cottage owned by shirojiro chaya,a prosperous merchant of the edo period,which was once located in the vicinity of the present-day chayama station.
when a train running on the eiden kurama line has many passengers,a conductor will board the train,and the conductor alone is seen to transfer here at chayama station(not at demachiyanagi station)from the train of the eizan main line to the train(bound for kurama station)of the kurama line.
station layout
chayama station has two separate platforms that face each other with two sets of tracks running between.
it's an unmanned stop.
the station doorway faces the railway crossing on the demachiyanagi station side of the platform.
an automatic ticket vending machine is provided only on the platform at which the train bound for demachiyanagi station stops,and the machine operates from 8:00 a.m.to 6:30 p.m.
on the platform where the train bound for takaragaike station stops,there is a shed whose length is nearly equal to that of the platform,and on the platform where the train bound for demachiyanagi station stops there is a shed whose length is roughly equal to a train car,so the roofs of these sheds shield passengers from the rain,etc.,when they get on or off the train that is operated without a conductor.
there is a free bicycle parking lot on the north side of the platform,and the staff of eiden are continually frustrated by the bicycles that are so often dumped there illegally.
neither platform is barrier-free.
there are only steps from the track level to the platform level(please refer to the image),so disabled persons--including those in wheelchairs--must be assisted when using the steps.
station surroundings
a quiet residential area spreads out around the station.
the nearest bus stops to chayama station are 'takahara-cho,' which is about 200 meters southeast of the station,and 'tanaka okubo-cho,' which is about 250 meters west-southwest of the station.
kyoto university of art and design(the university building stands about 500 meters east of the station.)
the nearest bus stop to the university building is 'kamihate-cho,kyoto zokei university' of kyoto city bus.
the sakyo post office(the post office stands about 600 meters northwest of the station.)
the nearest bus stop to the post office is 'takano' of kyoto city bus.
izumiya co.,ltd.,takano branch(the store is located about 600 meters northwest of the station.)
the nearest bus stop to the store is 'takano' of kyoto city bus.
qanat rakuhoku(the store is about 800 meters west-southwest of the station.)
the nearest bus stops to the store are 'takanobashi' of kyoto bus co.,ltd.,and 'takano' of kyoto city bus.
the main store of tenkaippin co.,ltd.(the store is located about 700 meters east-northeast of the station.)
the nearest bus stop to the store is 'kamihate-cho,kyoto zokei university' of kyoto city bus.
kyoto municipal yotoku elementary school
history
september 27,1925:chayama station opened as a stop of kyoto dento.
march 2,1942:chayama station became a stop of keifuku electric railroad co.,ltd.,due to the transfer of operations.
april 1,1986:chayama station became a stop of eizan electric railway co.,ltd.,upon the transfer of operations.
adjacent stations
eizan electric railway co.,ltd.
eizan main line
mototanaka station-chayama station-ichijoji station
