kawaramachi station(kyoto prefecture)
kawaramachi station is the last station on the hankyu railway hankyu kyoto main line,and is located at 52 shin-cho,kawaramachi-nishi-iru,shijo-dori,simogyo ward,kyoto city,kyoto prefecture.
summary
it was formerly called 'kyoto kawaramachi station,' in order to emphasize that it was a terminal station of the same company in kyoto.
though it was called 'kawaramachi' for a while,the name has changed back to 'kyoto kawaramachi' ('kawaramachi(kyoto)' when noted in english)in both live announcements and automatic station broadcasting.
it is connected to karasuma station by an underpass,which can be traveled in 10 minutes on foot.
however,it is simply an 'underpass,' and not the usual 'underground shopping center':except for the station kiosk,the information office and other essentials,there are no shops.
railway routes connected to at this station
keihan electric railway
keihan main line(shijo station(keihan))
to transfer,it is necessary to go up to ground level and cross the shijo-ohashi bridge.
though neither line makes transfer announcements,both this station and keihan shijo station are considering posting the other's train timetables along the connecting passage for their passengers' convenience.
station structure
the station is underground,located directly beneath shijo-dori street,with single-level side platforms and 3 tracks.
hankyu kawaramachi station' is written on the exteriors of both the hankyu department store,on the southeast corner of the shijo-kawaramachi intersection,and the kotocross hankyu kawaramachi building,on the northeast corner of the same intersection.
there are 2 ticket gates:the east gate and the central gate.
the west ticket gate,which connected directly to platform 2,was closed on march 17,2007.
(this is thought to be because of platform 2's low usage rate;after the train schedule revision on march 17,2007,the platform was used by only one train per day.)
the restrooms are at the east end of the platform.
platform 1 was once served by two platforms,as at yodoyabashi station on the keihan main line.
as trains grew longer,this method of use was discontinued.
in addition,only platform 1 and 3 are used on a regular basis;platform 2 is used by only one train per day.
(it is thought to have been used to hold cars for rust removal.)
while there are no set rules regarding which type of train departs from which platform,during the daytime hours,limited express trains depart from platform 1 and semi-express trains depart from platform 3.
in addition,track 1 is used for the arrival and departure of rapid expresses and all other such trains.
usage status
there are many people who head towards bustling shijo-kawaramachi.
in fiscal year 2003,approximately 38,164 passengers boarded each day(kyoto prefecture statistics book).
station vicinity
please see shijo-kawaramachi for information regarding bus terminals and the station vicinity.
history
june 17,1963:because of a route extension,trains began running between the kyoto main line's omiya station(kyoto prefecture)and kawaramachi.
august 20,1982:platform 2 was extended.
station name
locals usually refer to the area near the station as 'shijo-kawaramachi,' which is the name of the shijo-dori street and kawaramachi-dori street intersection;they almost never call it 'kawaramachi' or '(hankyu)kawaramachi station-front area.'
however,except for residents of this central region,even kyoto citizens often call the area 'kawaramachi' or 'shijo.'
to residents of kyoto, 'kawaramachi' is simply a street in kyoto city.
on the other hand,recent tourist guidebooks or gourmet guides often refer to this area as 'kawaramachi area' or 'kawaramachi.'
the situation is similar to that of shijo-karasuma and shijo-omiya.
in these places,the bus stops are named after the intersection names,and not '______station-front.'
on the other hand,bus stops in front of kyoto station or nijo station are called '______station-front,' even by locals.
the station's name is not prefixed with 'shijo' because it might then be easily confused with the hankyu kyoto line,which runs through the city directly beneath shijo-dori street.
(except for karasuma-oike station,subway stations along the karasuma line are not prefixed with 'karasuma' for similar reasons.)
neighboring stations
hankyu railway
kyoto main line
special commuter express/special express/fast express/semi-express/local
karasuma station-kawaramachi station
