osumi station
osumi station,located in osumi maruyama,kyotanabe city,kyoto prefecture,is a stop on the katamachi line,which is operated by the west japan railway company(jr west).
the icoca and j-through cards,both passenger ic cards,are available for payment of railway fares at this station.
the suica,toica and pitapa cards,all compatible with icoca,are also available(pitapa card is issued by the surutto kansai association).
station layout
it is an aboveground station.
formerly,osumi station was an unmanned stop equipped with a one-side platform with one track,which could only accommodate trains of up to four cars,but on march 23,2002 it was renewed into a manned stop that could accommodate trains of up to seven cars;the renewed stop is equipped with two separate platforms and two tracks,and these facilities enable two trains to pass each other.
the station building sits alongside platform 1,and it is connected with platform 2 via a bridge.
the automatic ticket gates in the station are simplified versions of the standard type.
the station became a manned stop,but jr west kotsu service,which is consigned the operation of the station,places no staff in the station early in the morning and at night.
during the daytime, "ressha kokan," which means that two trains coming from both sides of a single line pass each other on the specially equipped double track,is done at matsuiyamate station or kyotanabe station,both neighboring stops of osumi station,so platform 2 of osumi station is only used in the morning and evening.
station surroundings
tanabe-kita interchange-keinawa expressway
kyotanabe city osumi junior high school
kyotanabe city osumi elementary school
kyotanabe city toen elementary school
tsukiyomi-jinja shrine
kyotanabe city north residents center 'tochiku'
tanabe country club
bus services
bus services are operated by keihan bus co.,ltd.
there is the bus stop in front of osumi station.
most of the bus services go to either kintetsu shin-tanabe station or keihan kuzuha station.
passenger use
approximately 1,682 passengers used this station each day in fiscal 2006.
(according to the kyoto prefecture statistics report)
history
december 1,1952:osumi station opened.
it was an unmanned stop with a one-side platform serving a track.
april 1,1987:it became a stop of jr west due to the division and privatization of jnr.
march 23,2002:it became a manned stop having two separate platforms with two tracks,thus enabling two trains to pass each other.
adjacent stations
west japan railway company(jr west)
gakkentoshi line(katamachi line)
rapid/regional rapid/local
kyotanabe station-osumi station-matsuiyamate station
