kyoto station
kyoto station,located in higashi-shiokojicho,shimogyo ward/minami ward,kyoto city,kyoto prefecture,is a railway station served by the lines of west japan railway company(jr west),central japan railway company(jr central),kintetsu corporation and the kyoto municipal transportation bureau.
general information
it plays a central role in kyoto city,one of the foremost tourist areas in japan.
because all the trains of the tokaido shinkansen make stops at kyoto station--and since many express buses connected with various destinations ranging from the south tohoku district to kanto,chubu,chugoku,shikoku,and kyushu district,depart from and arrive at the station--large numbers of people arrive from all over japan,and the average total number of users of the kyoto station exceeds 630,000 a day.
this station is one of four that form the pivotal points of the north kinki big x network,a project formulated by jr west.
in addition,since it's also one of the largest terminal stations,it deserves to be called the entrance to a wide range of sightseeing spots in kyoto.
the stations(on the conventional lines)of jr west belong to the urban network area.
icoca and pitapa can be used at stations of jr west,kintetsu and(kyoto municipal)subway.
various transportation cards are accepted at the station:for jr west,j-thru,suica,and toica;for the subway,the cards compatible with kansai thru pass;and for kintetsu,j-thru and the cards compatible with kansai thru pass.
these cards are not accepted for jr central shinkansen(except for ex-ic service,where the ex-ic card can be used in combination with cards for conventional lines such as suica,icoca,toica and pitapa).
lines
west japan railway company(jr west)
tokaido main line(toward maibara station:biwako line;toward osaka:jr kyoto line)
sanin main line(sagano line)
nara line*starting station
kosei line*although this line officially covers the section between omi-shiotsu station and yamashina station,all trains come directly to this station.
central japan railway company(jr central)
tokaido shinkansen
kintetsu railways
kintetsu kyoto line*starting station
kyoto municipal subway
kyoto municipal subway karasuma line(k 11)
station layout
jr west and jr central
the station has four(ordinary)platforms with six tracks for the tokaido main line(jr kyoto line/biwako line)and one(ordinary)platform with one track for the kosei line,three bay platforms with four tracks for the sanin main line(sagano line)in the west side of the yard,two bay platforms with three tracks for the nara line in the south side(except platform 8 which extends toward the direction to osaka),and two island platforms with four tracks for the tokaido shinkansen.
the surface station is for the conventional lines,while the elevated station is designed for the shinkansen.
all platforms are connected by the station building on the west bridge as well as by the underground walkway within the east side of the station.
although the platform facing the karasuma chuo-guchi(central entrance/exit)is 558 m long and is known throughout the transportation sector as the longest railway platform in japan,platform 0(former platform 1)is 323 m long.
the remaining part is used for platform 30(235m),which is built on the western side for a dead-end track.
platform 30 is used exclusively for the airport express 'haruka' bound for kansai-airport station,and when the operation was started it was called 'haruka(faraway)platform.'
the name of the formerplatform 1 was changed to platform 0 in order to reorganize the platform numbers in accordance with the track numbers,and therefore the present platform 1,which is situated between platform 0 and 2,corresponds to the tokaido line inbound track for nonstop trains.
in relation to this setup,the tokaido line outbound track for nonstop trains is currently not used;instead,the freight trains toward suita station pass through platform 7.
the platforms for the sanin main line constructed on the west side were previously called 'sanin platform 1 to 4,but in december 1994 the platform names were revised;subsequently,these platforms were designated as platform 30 to 34,including the so-called 'haruka' platform.
these platforms were designated to have numbers incorporating '30' (san-ju …in japanese),in order to phonetically match the name of the line,the sanin line,which begins with 'san.'
platform 34 has the biggest number of any railway platform in japan.
to distinguish the subway line or the kintetsu line from the jr line,when you take the subway line the station is often called 'subway kyoto station(karasuma line kyoto station),' but when you take the kintetsu line it is often called 'kintetsu kyoto station.'
however,on the shinkansen platforms(and within the shinkansen)the subway line is not mentioned in the transfer announcement on the lines.
in the former station building there was a waiting lounge;however,for a considerable time afterward there was no such lounge except for a small space on platform 6 and 7.
in mid-march 2008,a waiting lounge was constructed on platform no.0,where many long-distance trains arrive and depart.
color-coded conventional railway lines
color-coded japanese railways:the colors used for the jr kyoto line,biwako line,nara line,sagano line,etc.
colors used for the lines(kusatsu line,kosei line,etc.)in the rollsign(destination blind).
arrival and departure platforms
conventional lines:platform 0-10,30-34
shinkansen:platform 11-14
platform numbers
platform 0 is used for trains that terminate at this station,such as the super hakuto and ocean arrow.
platform 6 and 7 are also used for trains that proceed from the biwako line,kosei line,kusatsu line and nara line and terminate at this station(many of these trains are deadheaded to the kyoto general operation station).
previously,the present platform 0,2 and 7 were called 2,4 and 11,respectively,but when the operation control system was introduced their names were changed in order for the platform numbers to conform to the respective track numbers.
when the new,fourth-generation building was constructed,the former platform 1 was demolished,and the existing platform 0 was widened for actual use.
if platform 0,30 and 31 were considered as one stretch of platform,it would measure 558 meters long and would therefore be the longest in japan.
the elevator connecting the shinkansen platforms and the ticket wicket for the shinkansen is controlled by an attendant of the station.
entrance/exit
the entrances/exits of conventional lines are situated as follows: 'karasuma chuo-guchi(karasuma central entrance/exit)' for the north side on the ground; 'chika chuo-guchi(underground central entrance/exit)' for the north side of the first floor in the basement; 'nishi-guchi(west entrance/exit)' for the rooftop of the station building on the west bridge,which connects the nanboku-jiyu-tsuro(north-to-south main corridor); 'chika higashi-guchi(underground east entrance/exit)' for the first floor in the basement,which connects the chika-jiyu-tsuro(underground corridor); 'hachijo higashi-guchi(hachijo east entrance/exit)' for the southeast side on the ground;and 'nishinotoin-guchi(nishinotoin entrance/exit)' located on the second floor of bic camera jr kyoto shop,which is also accessible from the platform of the sanin(main)line.
the shinkansen entrances are located as follows: 'shinkansen hachijo-guchi(shinkansen hachijo entrance)' on the south side at ground level, 'shinkansen hachijo higashi-guchi(shinkansen hachijo east entrance)' on the southeast side at ground level,and 'shinkansen chuo-guchi(shinkansen central entrance)' on the west side of the shinkansen concourse.
conventional lines and the shinkansen can be mutually transferred through the shinkansen central transfer gate and the shinkansen east transfer gate.
to transfer,passengers proceeding to the karasuma-guchi bus stop take 'karasuma chuo-guchi,' while for those proceeding to hachijo-guchi bus stop, 'hachijo higashi-guchi' or 'shinkansen hachijo-guchi' is convenient;to transfer from a conventional line to the kintetsu line or vice versa,use 'nishi-guchi';from a conventional line to the subway line or vice versa,use 'chika higashi-guchi';from shinkansen to kintetsu line or vice versa,use 'shinkansen chuo-guchi',or from shinkansen to the subway line or vice versa, 'shinkansen hachijo higashi-guchi' is convenient.
compared with other stations on different lines in kyoto city and the terminal stations in other large cities,karasuma chuo-guchi is distinguished by its spacious terminal for buses and cabs.
jr kyoto station building
the actual station building is now the fourth generation.
in 1915,in conjunction with emperor taisho's enthronement ceremony,the classical-style second-generation station building was constructed after setsu watanabe's design,but it was burned down by an accidental fire in 1950;subsequently,the third-generation station building with a ferroconcrete structure was completed in 1952.
however,with the development of the station the building underwent further extensions repeatedly,and as a consequence the station structure--with its shopping area,including an underground shopping mall and access-ways--became extremely chaotic and terribly inconvenient.
additionally,the station structure had caused various problems due to its age.
therefore,the renovation of the building was planned as a drastic measure.
this was part of the project implemented in 1994 to commemorate the anniversary of heian-kyo(the ancient capital).
south of the platforms there is another station building beneath the platforms of the kintetsu line and the shinkansen,which was constructed when the shinkansen went into operation;however,it underwent a slight change during the renovation due to its small size except for the construction of the nanboku-jiyu-tsuro and the complete separation of the ticket wicket of the jr line from that of the kintetsu line.
with this newly constructed building,the station is becoming a new landmark of kyoto city.
near the edge of the platform of the sagano line to the direction of kameoka station,the jr kyoto station nk building was completed and a new ticket wicket was installed there to alleviate the congestion of the sagano line caused by passengers rushing to the cars stationed at another end of the platform toward the direction of kyoto station.
in this building,bic camera,an electronics retail store,opened its kyoto shop(nishinotoin-guchi).
construction and design of the station building
the jr kyoto station building(jr west)underwent an architectural design competition(an unusual method for a japanese railway station)and seven architects--hiroshi hara,tadao ando,yoshiro ikehara,kisho kurokawa,james stirling,bernard tschumi and peter bussmann--were appointed to compete.
the eliminatory screening of the design narrowed the seven proposals down to those of hara,ando and stirling,and after further deliberation the proposal of hiroshi hara was adopted as the final plan.
although the kyoto station area enjoys a preferential measure that permits construction to a height of 120 m,the designs were evaluated from the standpoint of how to achieve harmony with the surrounding environment,avoiding the oppressive feeling caused by the huge size and height of the building,because there were persistent objections arguing that an easement of the height restriction might destroy the landscape of the ancient capital.
the adopted design shows various precautions to avoid any oppressive feeling,including the measure to secure a visual axis by dividing the building in accordance with roads stretching to the north and south,and by limiting the maximum height to less than 60 m,but the design does not offer a perfect solution.
additionally,even today,nearly ten years after the construction,there are still many negative opinions stating that the form,with its heavy use of half-mirror crystals and aluminum panels,doesn't match the ancient capital.
the completed station building has a hotel on the east side and an isetan department store on the west side;the center is a spacious wellhole-style hall with a huge,vaulted glass ceiling and a glass facade covering the slender guestroom wing of the hotel constructed above the ticket gates.
the wellhole-style hall outstretches two valley-shaped staircases to the east and west.
the grand staircase set on the isetan side measures ten stories high,and was installed with the assumption that it would serve as an escape route in the event of an emergency.
the staircase is also used for concerts and events,such as the 'jr kyoto station building grand staircase dashing-up competition'(sponsored by kyoto broadcasting system)held in february of each year.
construction and design
architectural design:architectural institute atelier fai(ф)
construction:kyoto station building work joint venture
completion of construction:1997
uses:station and complex facility
structure:steel-frame,steel-reinforced concrete(src)structure
number of stories:16 stories above ground and three stories below ground(total height,60 meters)
site area:38,000 sq.m.
building area:32,400 sq.m.
total floor area:238,000 sq.m.
location:8-3,higashi-shiokoji takakuracho,shimogyo ward,kyoto city,kyoto prefecture
received the 40th building constructors society award
kintetsu corporation
elevated station with three bay platforms and three tracks
it has a three-layer structure:a ticket wicket(hachijo-guchi(hachijo entrance/exit)),the station office and meitengai shopping arcade are located on the first floor;the platforms and a ticket wicket(chuo-guchi(central entrance/exit))are located on the second floor(a ticket gate was located inside the jnr/jr station for a long time with a ticket machine for transfer,but when the new station building was constructed and the nanboku-jiyu-tsuro was made,the ticket wickets of the two companies were fully separated);and the third floor has the platforms for the jr central shinkansen.
the platform's effective length is six cars(until the latter half of 1990s,when the nanboku-jiyu-tsuro became available,there was a ticket booth at karasuma-guchi(karasuma entrance/exit),at which a teller would attend to individual passengers).
as part of the station's renewal,on december 1,2007 the ticket gate and ticket booth were closed,and the commuter pass booth and station office(among others)were transferred and centralized to the ticket gate(chuo-guchi)on the second floor.
toshiba automatic ticket checkers are installed,just as they are in other stations on the nara line.
the red-colored automatic ticket checker(eg-2000)can process two outgoing tickets at the same time and accepts pitapa and icoca.
platform numbers
platform 1 and 2 employ the divided system for incoming and outgoing passengers(at both ends of the track,two platforms--one for incoming passengers and the other for outgoing passengers--are placed to divide the flow of passengers).
platforms are situated in the following order from the south:incoming platform for platform 1,outgoing platform for platform 1 and 2;the incoming platform for platform 2;and the incoming and outgoing platform for platform 3.
station renovation
on december 22,2005 kintetsu corporation announced the construction of another line on the north side of platform 3.
according to the outline of the plan as of march 1,2007,and the outline and progress of the kyoto station terminal improvement work as of march 6,2008,
(according to)
platform 4 is constructed with a one-sided structure;the work is scheduled to start in april 2008 and be completed in spring 2012.
the kintetsu meitengai shopping arcade is extended to increase the floor area,and will be renewed and opened in october 2008.
a hotel(with 368 rooms in eight stories above ground)is constructed on the space above platform 4,and is scheduled to open in autumn 2011.
the ticket wicket on the first floor is closed,but the ticket wicket on the second floor is extended.
the construction work mentioned above has been scheduled.
in conjunction with the renewal,the hachijo ticket wicket,as well as its adjacent ticket booth and the first-floor lavatory,were closed on november 30,2007 with the departure of the day's last train.
kyoto municipal subway
it is an underground station with one island platform and two tracks.
there are four ticket wickets:north,central-1,central-2,south and,to transfer to the jr conventional lines,central-1 and-2 wickets;for transfers from/to the jr nara line,the shinkansen and the kintetsu line,south gate wicket are convenient.
station number:k11
the elevator is made by nippon otis elevator co.
platform numbers
number of passengers
jr west
the average daily number of passengers in fiscal year 2006 was 179,155.
it is ranked second among the stations of jr west,after osaka station.
jr central
the average daily number of passengers in fiscal year 2006 was 30,921.
it is ranked seventh among the stations of jr central.
kintetsu railways
the average daily number of passengers in fiscal year 2005 was 108,512.
it is ranked fifth among all the stations on the kintetsu railways surveyed(323 stations).
kyoto municipal transportation bureau
the average daily number of passengers in fiscal year 2005 was 105,704.
this is the largest number of passengers among all the stations of kyoto municipal subway.
history of the station
it was inaugurated on february 6,1877.
originally,it was the final station of the railroad between kobe and kyoto,and it was the second railway inaugurated after the railroad opened between shimbashi and yokohama.
thus it is said that,owing to this favorable route setup,kyoto station was constructed in the southern area of kyoto city,around shichijo-dori street and hachijo-dori street,although this area was far from the shijo-kawaramachi area,a prominent center of the time.however,another reason for the selection could be that the area was underdeveloped at the time and it was easy to acquire the site(if it had been constructed along the shijo-dori street,the acquisition of the land would have met strong emotional opposition from the citizens in addition to the difficulties in purchasing it,because railroading should have been carried out in the gion district,which has many temples and shrines such as yasaka-jinja shrine,and the traditional houses in the vicinity should have been removed).
later,a railway opened from kyoto to otsu,but at that time the route proceeded toward otsu,through the site where the meishin expressway in fact runs,after going far down to the south near the present inari station on the nara line,because the drilling technology needed to cut a tunnel through higashiyama(kyoto prefecture)wasn't available.
subsequently,with the opening of the sanin main line the station became the departure and arrival point of the nara electric railway and the city trams(kyoto city trams),so the area around the station developed rapidly.
moreover,on august 1,1921,when the route of the tokaido main line in the section between baba and kyoto was to be changed and shortened thanks to the opening of osakayama tunnel and higashiyama tunnel,two plans--one being to transfer the station toward the urban area around the gojo-dori street in order to enhance the convenience,and the other being to change the existing route to a circuitous route in the northern part of kyoto and construct a new kyoto general station near the present nijo station so as to promote the development of a new urban area--were proposed to improve the utility,although eventually both plans faded,owing to the difficulty of budgeting and construction extending the line close to the urban area as well as the inconvenience that if the line were to go around kyoto the distance shortened by the opening of the tunnels would be offset.
the original plan for the 'hikari' shinkansen was for it to run without stopping at kyoto station,thus bypassing the southern part of kyoto prefecture.
this was met by considerable opposition from the local governments and residents,however,who had been appeased with a plan to create a platform for the shinkansen within kyoto station(see the railways and politics section for further details).
when 'nozomi' was introduced in march 1992,at the outset 'nozomi 301,' the first train starting from tokyo,ran without stopping at nagoya and kyoto.
in nagoya the people protested,saying nagoya had been skipped,skipped,while in kyoto the people were slightly nervous because it wasn't the train that arrived at the best time for tourism.
this 'nozomi 301' was abolished through the revision of the timetable in november 1997,and consequently there is no shinkansen passing nonstop at kyoto station.
chronology
september 5,1876:the railway provisionally opened between omiya-dori temporary train station(near the present umekoji(freight)station)and mukomachi station.
february 5,1877:the railway's inauguration ceremony was held with emperor meiji present.
february 6,1877:kyoto teishaba(kyoto station)opened.
the omiya-dori temporary train station was closed.
august 18,1879:the railway between kyoto station and otani station(shiga prefecture)went into operation.
this line was further extended to otsu station(later hamaotsu station),and afterwards it was incorporated into the tokaido main line.
february 1,1895:kyoto electric railway(later integrated into kyoto city trams)started operating between shiokoji-higashitoin station(around kyoto station)and fushimi-shimoaburakake station.
september 5,1895:nara railway(today the nara line)started by using the same track.
april 1,1897:kyoto station on the nara railway was separated as shichijo station on.
november 16,1897:kyoto railway(the present-day sanin main line)started by running the same track.
february 7,1905:nara railway transferred the business to kansei railway company.
august 1,1907:the kyoto railway nationalization act was enacted.
october 1,1907:the kansei railway company was nationalized.
june 1,1908:shichijo station,on the former nara railway,was integrated into kyoto station.
june 11,1912:kyoto city trams karasuma line went into operation.
june 21,1913:cargo started being handled in a separate form by the newly opened umekoji station.
august 15,1914:preparation of the site for the second-generation station building started.
october 1915:the station building was completed.
august 1,1921:the old nara line(between inari station and kyoto station)was abolished.
a new line was constructed between momoyama station and inari station,while the old tokaido main line between inari station and kyoto station was incorporated into the nara line.
november 15,1928:nara electric railways(the present-day kintetsu kyoto line)opened its kyoto station.
january 8,1934:in the jnr station yard,a person who had come to see off a passenger of the special train provided for the people joining the kure marine corps was crushed to death.
november 18,1950:a fire broke out from the switchboard room of the dinning located within the jnr station yard,and the station burned down.
may 27,1952:the third-generation jnr kyoto station building was completed.
august 1,1961:the kyoto city trams horikawa line(known as the kitano line,between kyoto-ekimae station and kitano station)was abolished.
october 1,1964:the tokaido shinkansen was inaugurated.
october 1,1977:the remaining in-service section of kyoto city trams karasuma line(between kyoto-ekimae station and karasuma shichijo station)was abolished.
october 1,1978:kyoto city trams was completely abolished.
the trams in the vicinity of kyoto station disappeared.
may 29,1981:the kyoto municipal subway karasuma line(between kyoto station and kitaoji station)started operating with the inauguration of kyoto station of the kyoto municipal subway.
april 1,1987:after the division and privatization of jnr,the operation of the shinkansen at jnr kyoto station was succeeded by central japan railway company(jr central)and the operation of the conventional lines was succeeded by west japan railway company(jr west).
june 11,1988:the kyoto municipal subway karasuma line extended its operation(between kyoto station and takeda station).
july 12,1997:a new kyoto station building was completed as the fourth generation of the jr kyoto station building.
the station space went into service.
september 11,1997:the entire kyoto station building was opened.
jr kyoto isetan was opened.
march 4,1998:automatic ticket checkers were introduced at the shinkansen entrance.
august 23,2007:the jr kyoto station nk building opened.
the bic camera jr kyoto station shop opened in the building.
also nishinotoin-guchi,a ticket wicket directly connecting to the platform of the sagano line from the shop,was established.
2008:it was scheduled to extend the nanboku-jiyu-tsuro because the construction of a new shopping mall,which will be the biggest mall in the prefecture,is planned for the south side of the station.
others
the station was chosen as one of the top 100 stations in the kinki district.
it is scheduled to extend the existing nanboku-jiyu-tsuro to south or southwest over hachijo-dori street within 2008.
the limited express "kuroshio" chimes out the melody of 'gion kouta' when it arrives at kyoto station.
this station is considered a unique case where the same line of the same company makes a stop on the ground as well as underground,because the trains of the kintetsu kyoto line depart and arrive on the ground while the trains that go through to the kyoto municipal subway karasuma line from the kintetsu line make their stop underground.
the same setup is also observed at ikebukuro station.
jr west and jr central
when the present station building was completed,the melody of the arrival chime was changed to the one that had previously been used as the departing chime on the seibu line(this melody is still used at seibu-chichibu station).
on the station building the sign of the station name 'kyoto station' was placed,which neither the second nor the third building had(in case of the third-generation building,the sign was installed on the wall after the privatization to jr).
to transfer to shichijo station on the keihan main line of keihan electric railway,though it is a bit far(a distance of about a kilometer),passengers go on foot(most passengers use the nara line to tofukuji station or use the kintetsu kyoto line to kintetsu-tanbabashi station in order to take a train of the keihan main line).
it is the base station by which to calculate the fare,because it's one of the stations 'within kyoto city' according to the jr definition of designated city areas.
kintetsu railways
when nara electric railway(the current kintetsu kyoto line)presented a direct connection with kyoto station,the initial plan proposed the installation of a subway line running beneath jnr station and the construction of a station on the north side of karasuma-guchi.
however,a terminal station was provisionally constructed on the grounds of the present site because,in addition to budgetary constraints,there was also a need for the construction to be completed before the enthronement ceremony for emperor showa.
since then,the station facility,which was supposed to be provisional,has not been moved;and when the construction of tokaido shinkansen started,the station was elevated in order to have a similar structure to that of the present station building,which permitted the platforms to be placed just beneath the shinkansen station.
most of the local trains are bound for saidaiji station,while the express and limited express trains vary their destinations according to the train;however,roughly speaking the expresses are bound for nara(during the daytime the line is also available from subway kyoto station,
though it is necessary to pay the extra fare for the subway section),for tenri,and for kashiharajingu-mae(to saidaiji station,the express stops at the same stations),while the limited expresses are bound for nara,for kashiharajingu-mae and kashikojima(please see the section "kintetsu limited express").
trains of the kintetsu series 3200,and 3220,which are convertible with the subway,take two different tracks:one to this station and the other to subway kyoto station(karasuma kyoto station).
by the year 2010,platform 4(see above)will be newly constructed,and the ticket wicket on the first floor will be removed and integrated with the ticket wicket of the second floor.
pitapa and icoca can be charged using the ticket machines installed outside the ticket gate,as well as the exit-fare machines and chargers inside the ticket gate.
in the kyoto line,due to the structure of the station,the l/c cars(long/cross changeable seat cars)are set up with long seats regardless of the hours.
because,platform 3 has a structure that does not permit division of the incoming/outgoing flow,and when the train enters on platform 3,even if the cross seats are set,it cannot turn around to adjust to the direction of the train turning back on the track.
ekiben(train lunch)
haginoya ordinary partnership
iwana-zushi(char sushi),unagi-no-nedoko,shinsen-gumi yukari no makunouchi(shinsen-gumi makunouchi bento),heian bento,kamo-gawa bento,sasa-unagi,takekago bento(lunch box in bamboo basket),shojin bento(vegetarian lunch box),tai-meshi(sea-bream rice),kyo-ogi
west japan railway food service net company
kyofu makunouchi(kyoto-style makunouchi),kyoraku bento,kotemari,nagomi bento,kyo-yuzen,ajisai bento,tonkatsu bento(pork cutlet lunch),chuka bento(chinese-style lunch),kodawari omusubi bento(special riceball lunch),yofu bento(western-style lunch),tokusei onigiri bento(special recipe riceball lunch),kuri okowa(glutinous rice cooked with chestnuts)
jr-central passengers co.,ltd.
nihon-no-aji hakuran("taste of japan" expo),soboro-boroboro daisuki bento,kamigata makunouch on-bento(kyoto/osaka-style hot boxed lunch),temari-zushi,hanahisago,taimeshi(sea-bream rice),takenoko-gohan to sakura-meshi(bamboo-shoot rice and "sakura" rice),higashiyama gojo,osaka meibutsu mamushi-don(osaka specialty grilled-eel rice),tokusen bento "kyoto" (special recipe lunch "kyoto"),ushiwakamaru gozen,benkei gozen,kamigata makunouchi(kyoto/osaka-style boxed lunch),chuka sansan(lunch with a variety of chinese foods),juju-tei,tonkatsu bento(pork-cutlet lunch),21-seiki shutsujin bento(21st-century "kick-off"lunch),gomoku kamameshi(assorted rice in a small pot)
togawa co.,ltd.
aji-gonomi,warabe,kyo-zammai
other stations named 'kyoto'
the present omiya station(kyoto prefecture)on the hankyu kyoto main line was called 'hankyu kyoto station' until the line was extended to kawaramachi station(kyoto prefecture)in 1963(keihanshin kyoto station until 1949,when the keihan electric railway was decoupled,and keihan kyoto station when the station was opened).
station surroundings
the station is located in the commercial area.
karasuma-guchi(karasuma entrance/exit)(north side)
kyoto station building
jr-west hotels kyoto(hotel granvia kyoto)
jr kyoto isetan(west japan railway isetan ltd.)
kyoto station building specialty mall,i.e.,the cube
kyoto-gekijo theater
museum 'eki' kyoto
kyoto osamu tezuka world
kyoto-ramen-koji(ramen lane)
kyoto station underground mall porta
kyoto tower
kyoto building of the keihan electric railway
kyoto red cross blood center,kyoto building
hankyu hotel management.
shin-shu hombyo
shichijo police station
kyoto central post office
campus plaza kyoto
omron corp.head office
bus terminal in front of kyoto station
public job-placement office hello work kyoto shichijo
nishinotoin-guchi
bic camera jr kyoto shop(jr kyoto station nk building)
hachijo-guchi(south side)
avanti business complex
hotel keihan kyoto
miyako hotels and resorts
routine sightseeing bus terminal
express bus terminal
kyoto city waterworks bureau
php interface kyoto head office
to-ji temple(kyoogokoku-ji temple)
rakunan high school/junior high school
kyoto station hachijo-guchi post office
bus
route bus
karasuma-guchi
kyoto-ekimae bus stop(bus stop in front of kyoto station)
kyoto municipal transportation bureau
route numbers:4・5・9・rapid 9・16・17・19・26・28・33・limited 33・42・50・73・75・78・81・limited 81・100・101・205・special limited 205・206・208・south 5・extra 28
keihan bus
toward mt.hiei-zan
kyoto bus
toward:yase,ohara,arashiyama,daikaku-ji,kiyotaki,koke-dera(suzumushi-dera),kitaoji-eikimae,kokusaikaikaneki-mae,eizan-dentetsu(eizan electric railway)iwakura-ekimae(kyoto prefecture),iwakura muramatsu,arisugawa(arashiyama-eigyoshomae),takano-shakomae(takano-eigyoshomae)
keihan kyoto kotsu(subsidiary of keihan bus)
toward:nishioji nanajo,katsura-eki higashi-guchi,kokudo nakayama,katsurazaka-chuo,kyoto seishokoko(kyoto seisho high school)-mae,nagamine,oi-no-saka toge,kameoka-ekimae
kyoto kotsu(maizuru)(subsidiary of nippon kotsu in osaka;different from keihan kyoto kotsu,a subsidiary of keihan bus)
toward:ayabe ohashi,nishi-maizuru-ekimae,higashi-maizuru-ekimae
tango kairiku kotsu(tango bus)(head office:yosanocho,yoza-gun,kyoto prefecture)/rapid bus
toward:ktr(kitakinki tango railway)miyazu-ekimae,miyazu sambashi,(tankai bus miyazu information office(baku seed tankai circuit-in-miyazu)-mae/ichinomiya koronorikae-teiryujo(ichinomiya seaway transfer bus stop)),ktr ama-no-hashidate-ekimae(amanohashidate hotel(auberge amanohashidate:restaurant 'pure')-mae),nodagawa tankai-mae,taiza(gyokomae(in front of the taiza fishing port)/kyotango city/tango-cho)
however,previous confirmation is needed as there are only two services(each day).
reservation is requested by the previous day(reservation by phone is accepted).
jr west bus(takao-keihoku line)between kyoto station,toganoo and shuzan)
hachijo-guchi
there are two bus stops:one at hachijo-guchi of kyoto station and the other in front of kyoto hachijo-guchi avanti.
the bus stop at the hachijo-guchi of kyoto station is situated near the nanboku-jiyu-tsuro,and the bus stop in front of kyoto hachijo-guchi avanti is near the hachijo higashi-guchi.
kyoto municipal transportation bureau
ceremony sightseeing(princes line bus)
toward:keihan-shichijo,kyoto joshichugaku-kotogakkomae(in front of kyoto girls' junior and senior high school),kyoto joshidaigakumae(in front of kyoto women's university)
express bus
karasuma-guchi
dream kyoto-go(nishinihon jr bus/jr bus kanto)
dream kyoto-go(nishinihon jr bus/jr bus kanto)
dream kyoto-go(nishinihon jr bus/jr bus kanto)
chuo highway daytime express kyoto-go(nishinihon jr bus/jr bus kanto)
chuo highway daytime express kyoto-go(nishinihon jr bus/jr bus kanto)
harbor light-go(nishinihon jr bus/shonan kanagawa chuo kotsu)
keihanshin dream saitama-go(nishinihon jr bus/seibu bus)
keihanshin dream shizuoka-go(nishinihon jr bus/jr central bus)
meishin highway bus(nishinihon jr bus/jr central bus/nagoyakanko-nikkyu/meihan kintetsu bus)
hokuriku highway bus(nishinihon jr bus/keihan bus)
hokuriku highway daytime express osaka-go(nishinihon jr bus)
tsuyama express kyoto-go(nishinihon jr bus/shinki bus)
miyako liner(keihan kyoto kotsu/chugoku bus)
hiroshima daytime express kyoto-go/hiroshima dream kyoto-go(chugoku jr bus/nishinihon jr bus)
awa express kyoto-go(nishinihon jr bus/jr shikoku bus/keihan bus/tokushima bus)
matsuyama express-go(nishinihon jr bus/jr shikoku bus)
takamatsu express kyoto-go(nishinihon jr bus/jr shikoku bus/shikoku kosoku bus/keihan bus)
kochi express-go(nishinihon jr bus/jr shikoku bus)
izumo-no-okuni-go/izumo express kyoto-go(nishinihon jr bus/chugoku jr bus/keihan bus/ichibata bus)
shin-hankyu hotel-mae(in front of hotel new hankyu kyoto)
alpen nagano-go(hankyu bus/kawanakajima bus)
okesa-go(hankyu bus/niigata kotsu)
between osaka/kyoto and toyama(hankyu bus/toyama chihou tetsudou)
between tokyo/yokohama and kyoto/osaka umeda(hankyu bus)
hachijo-guchi
the location of the bus station varies according to the route.
arcadia-go(express bus)(kintetsu bus/yamako bus(yamagata prefecture))
forest-go(osaka-sendai line)(kintetsu bus/miyagi kotus)
galaxy-go(kintetsu bus/fukushima kotsu)
seagull-go(express bus)(kintesu bus/shin-joban kotsu)
silk liner(nippon chuo bus)
tochinoki-go(kintetsu bus/kantou jidousya(tochigi prefecture))
yokappe kansai-go(kintetsu bus/kanto railway)
wing liner(kintetsu bus/kokusai juo)
flying sneaker kyoto/ibaraki-go(kintetsu bus/tohoku kyuko bus)
tokyo midnight express uji-go(keihan bus/kb bus)
between sakai/nanba/kyoto and tachikawa(naknai bus/tachikawa bus)
between kyoto and chiba(keisei bus)
kyoto-go
between kyoto and fukuoka(keihan bus/nishitetsu highway bus)
osaka-choshi line(nankai bus/chibakotsu)
kamakura/fujisawa-kyoto/nanba/sakai line(nankai bus/enoden bus)
fujiyama liner(kintetsu bus/fujikyu yamanashi bus)
crystal liner(kintetsu bus/yamanashi kotsu)
chikuma-gawa liner(kintetsu bus/chikuma bus)
between nanba/kyoto and nagano/yudanaka(nankai bus/nagaden bus)
between kyoto and kansai international airport(kansai airport limousine/osaka airport transport/keihan bus)
between kyoto and osaka airport(osaka airport transport)
kyoto express(kyoto-okayama/kurashiki line)(ryobi bus/shimotsukui dentetsu)
tottori express kyoto-go(keihan city bus/nihon kotsu)
yonago express kyoto-go(keihan bus/nihon kotsu)
kyoto express(kyoto-matuyama line)(keihan bus/iyo railway)
between kyoto and kochi(keihan bus/tosa electric railway/kochi bureau of transport)
shimanto blue liner(kintetsu bus/kochi seinan transport service)
holland-go(kintetsu bus/nagasaki jidosha)
sunrise-go(kintetsu bus/kyusu sanko bus)
next stations
*for the stations at which the trains on the tokaido shinkansen and the limited express/express trains on the jr west conventional lines make their stops,please see the sections of the respective trains;for the stations where the limited express trains of kintetsu railways make their stops,please see the section "kintetsu railways limited express."
west japan railway(jr west)
■jr kyoto line/biwako line(tokaido main line)/kosei line
special rapid service
yamashina station-kyoto station-takatsuki station
rapid service(it is operated as a local train on the biwako line during the morning and at night).
yamashina station-kyoto station-nagaokakyo station
■ local train(including the trains operated as rapid between takatsuki and akashi station)
yamashina station-kyoto station-umekoji freight station-nishioji station
■nara line
miyakoji rapid service/rapid service/regional rapid service/local train
kyoto station-tofukuji station
sagano line(sanin main line)
rapid service
kyoto station-nijo station
■local train
kyoto station-tanbaguchi station
central japan railway(jr central)
■tokaido shinkansen
maibara station-kyoto station-shin-osaka station
kintetsu railways
kyoto line
■rapid ■local express ■local train
kyoto station-to-ji station
kyoto municipal subway
■karasuma line
gojo station(kyoto municipal subway)(k10)-kyoto station(k11)-kujo station(kyoto prefecture)(k12)
