emmachi station
emmachi station,located in nishinokyo emmachi,nakagyo ward,kyoto city,is a stop on the sanin main line(sagano line),which is operated by the west japan railway company(jr west).
the cable address of the station name is 'osaen.'
icoca and j-through card,both of which are ic cards,are available for railway fare payment at this station;for information regarding the compatible ic card with icoca,please refer to the article about icoca.
station layout
it is an elevated station having an island platform with two tracks.
the ticket gate is located on the ground level,while the platforms are on the second-floor level.
its structure is very similar to that of nijo station and hanazono station,the next stations for local trains.
station surroundings
marutamachi-dori street extends in the east-west direction on the north side of the station and intersects nishioji-dori street at the emmachi intersection,which is located slightly east of the station.
this area is densely packed with houses,and there are shopping areas such as en-en town along the street.
a consumer-electronics maker,ninomiya,had once opened before the station started its operation,but its store building is now run by midori denka co.,ltd.
neighboring public facilities and organizations
kyoto prefectural gymnasium
kyoto asny(kyoto city general center for lifelong learning)
kyoto city central library
the kyoto-kami labor standards supervision office(the office was transferred to 3 saiin hiramachi,ukyo ward,on october 10,2006 for the purpose or rebuilding,and the office restarted at the new location on june 2,2008.)
kyoto local meteorological observatory
neighboring educational establishments
hanazono university
kyoto barber&beauty college
rakuyo general high school
kyoto prefectural yamashiro high school
kyoto municipal saikyo high school
there are also many people who attend ritsumeikan university,st.victor rakusei junior and senior high school.
bus stops
nishinokyo emmachi
kyoto city bus
system 15:for sanjo keihan(via kawaramachi station(kyoto prefecture))/ritsumeikan university
system 26:for(kitano-hakubai-cho station)omuro-ninnaji station and yamagoe/kyoto station(via karasuma station)
system 91:for shijo karasuma(via saiin station)/daikaku-ji temple(via toei movie land(kyoto uzumasa eigamura))
system 93:for kinrin shako-depot(via marutamachi-dori street)/saga arashiyama
system 202:for gion(via marutamachi-dori street,kumano-jinja shrine)/kujo shako-depot(via nishioji kujo)
system 203:for ginkakuji-michi and kinrin shako-depot(via imadegawa-dori street)/gion(via nishioji shijo)
system 204:for ginkaku-ji temple(via marutamachi-dori street)/kitaoji station(via nishioji-dori street and kinkakuji-michi)
system 205:for kitaoji bus terminal(via kinkakuji-michi)/kyoto station and kujo shako-depot(via nishioji nanajo)
system rapid 202:for kitano-hakubai-cho and ritsumeikan university(via komatsubara jidokoen-mae(komatsubara children's park))/kujo shako-depot(via nishioji eki-mae(front of nishioji station))
system rapid 205:for kitano-hakubai-cho and ritsumeikan university(via komatsubara jidokoen-mae(komatsubara children's park))/kyoto station and kujo shako-depot(via nishioji nanajo)
emmachi eki-mae(front of emmachi station)
kyoto bus
emmachi
west jr bus company
(for toganoo and shuzan(some buses via ritsumeikan daigaku-mae(front of ritsumeikan university)/kyoto station
passenger use
the average number of daily passengers in fiscal year 2006 was 6,997.
(according to the kyoto prefecture statistics report)
history
september 23,2000:operations began when the section between nijo and hanazono was double-tracked.
april 2,2001:three morning rapid inbound trains began making stops at the station.
march 23,2002:all rapid trains started stopping at this station.
adjacent stations
west japan railway company(jr west)
sagano line(sanin main line)
rapid
nijo station-emmachi station-saga-arashiyama station
local
nijo station-emmachi station-hanazono station(kyoto prefecture)
