hashidate(a train)
hashidate is the name of a limited express train that the west japan railway company(jr west)operates between kyoto station and amanohashidate station via the sanin main line,the miyafuku line of the kitakinki tango railway corporation and the miyazu line of the kitakinki tango railway corporation.
this train is one of those used in the north kinki big x network.
it is named after the amanohashidate scenic area.
its color theme is red.
it was named after the 'red ogre' in an ogre-related legend surrounding the oe-yama mountain range,which towers over the miyafuku line of kitakinki tango railway corporation,on which this train also runs.
in this section,the history of higher-class trains on the maizuru line,obama line and miyazu line of the kitakinki tango railway corporation is also described.
general operating conditions
train cars used
nr/jr limited express series 183
organization
frame＝a first-class car,white frame＝an ordinary-class car,自＝non-reserved seats,指＝reserved seats,x＝smoking is prohibited when using the seats.
this organizational system is for hashidate 3,7,1,2 and 6.
the organization of hashidate 1,2 and 6 is 'hashidate' + 'hashidate.'
the organization of hashidate 3 and 7 is 'hashidate' + 'maizuru.'
the seats of the sixth car of hashidate 2 are non-reserved ones.
this organizational system is for hashidate 5,4 and 8.
stations at which this train stops
hashidate
kyoto station-nijo station-kameoka station-sonobe station-(hiyoshi station(kyoto prefecture))-(goma station)-ayabe station-fukuchiyama station-oe station(kyoto prefecture)-miyazu station-amanohashidate station
maizuru
kyoto station-nijo station-kameoka station-sonobe station-ayabe station-nishi-maizuru station-higashi-maizuru station
the history of higher-class trains on the maizuru,obama and miyazu lines
it is said that the name 'hashidate' was first used for a semi-express train operated in the period of 1965 to 1968 between osaka station and amanohashidate station via the fukuchiyama line,sanin main line and miyazu line.
hashidate became an express train in 1966.
the express train merged into the 'kinosaki' train in 1968.
the 'monju(train)' and 'tango discovery' limited express trains in the present train schedule are operated in ways similar to the one in which this train was operated.
in the period from 1982 to 1992, 'hashidate' was an express train operated between fukui station(fukui prefecture)and amanohashidate station via the obama and miyazu lines.
wakasa' was also operated between those two stations;a description is also made for 'taisha,' an express train that was operated between the two stations as well.
march 1,1961: 'wakasa' was introduced as a semi-express train running between nishi-maizuru station and kanazawa station.
april 20,1963:one inbound train service and one outbound train service were added to the operation of 'wakasa,' being operated between fukui station and the higashi-maizuru and nishi-maizuru stations.
october 1,1964:one inbound train service and one outbound train service of 'wakasa' were abolished.
however,the 'wakasa' special train was operated until the 'asashio' express train came into use on december 1 between kanazawa station and izumoshi station.
march 5,1966:the status of 'wakasa' was raised to an express train.
october 1,1966:operation of the 'taisha' express train started between nagoya station,tsuruga station and izumoshi station.
this train is operated between tsuruga station and yonago station,connected with the 'asashio' express train running between kanazawa station and izumoshi station.
july,1968:the 'emerald' operation started to supplement that of 'taisha,' running between nagoya and higashi-maizuru.
because the 'taisha' express train,which ran from nagoya to izumo city via the obama line,was connected at tsuruga to a train organized at kanazawa,it was difficult in the sea-bathing season to increase the number of its train cars,and therefore 'emerald' was introduced as a means to supplement its operation.
although the operation of 'taisha' was later abolished, 'emerald' continued to operate during the sea-bathing season.
emerald' was operated in the summer season until 1995.
october 1,1968:the name of the 'asashio' express train was changed to 'taisha.'
the stations served by 'taisha' became nagoya station and some of those between kanazawa station and izumoshi station.
october 1,1970:one inbound train service and one outbound train service of 'wakasa' were added to the operation of 'wakasa.'
march 15,1972:the operation of 'wakasa' on the maizuru line and sanin main line started.
only one 'wakasa' train started at and returned to kyoto station.
also refer to 'maizuru(train).'
october 2,1978:the 'taisha' trains organized for starting at and returning to kanazawa station began operating between fukui station and amanohashidate station.
july 1,1982:the 'taisha' trains organized for starting at and returning to nagoya station began operating between nagoya station and amanohashidate station.
november 15,1982:the operation of the 'taisha' trains organized for starting at and returning to nagoya station was abolished.
the train name was changed to 'hashidate.'
november 1,1986:prior to the privatization of japan national railways(jnr),one inbound train service and one outbound train service of 'wakasa' starting at and returning to fukui station were abolished.
march 13,1992:the operation of 'hashidate' was abolished.
march 16,1996: 'wakasa' began operating between higashi-maizuru station and tsuruga station.
october 2,1999:the operation of 'wakasa' was abolished.
in 1996,the operation of trains between sonobe station and fukuchiyama station on the sanin main line,between fukuchiyama station and miyazu station on the miyafuku line of kitakinki tango railway corporation and between miyazu station and amanohashidate station on the miyazu line of kitakinki tango railway corporation were electrified,and therefore the operation of electric limited express trains started.
this name was given to trains that started at and returned to kyoto station.
march 18,2007:smoking was prohibited throughout the train.
