shin-hosono station
located at seika-cho,soraku-gun in kyoto prefecture,shin-hosono station is a stop on the kintetsu kyoto line of the kintetsu corporation.
it's one of the central hub stations of kansai science city.
lines connected to this station
west japan railway company(jr west)
katamachi line(gakkentoshi line)-hosono station
it's adjacent to the west of this station and is connected by a passageway.
katamachi line has a few other stations in close proximity with shin-hosono,but this is the only station that the conductor of the train announces as a transfer station.
station layout
it's an aboveground station with two platforms,each between two tracks,and there are station operation facilities integrated with the overpass.
each of the platforms has a length sufficient to accommodate six cars.
the outside tracks function as refuge tracks,as required.
ticket gates are found in just one location,but entrances to the station house are place on both the eastern and western sides.
the automated ticket gates installed were manufactured by toshiba.
red-colored automatic ticket gates(eg-2000)can process two tickets together when exiting;additionally,they're compatible with the pitapa and icoca cards.
characteristics
initially,only semi-express trains(they disappeared in the first half of the 1990s)and local trains made stops at this station,but following a timetable revision in 2000 the express trains also started making stops.
season tickets are not sold,nor are subscription sales allowed.
refuge tracks were laid in march 1996.
prior to that time the station had a two-platform,two-track configuration.
there is a concept to extend the kintetsu keihan line to this station as well as a plan to extend it to takanohara station,but a decision is yet to be made.
usage status
the survey conducted on november 8,2005 revealed that the number of passengers getting on and off at this station was 11,535 on that day.
it ranked sixty-sixth among all kintetsu stations surveyed(323 stations on that date).
it ranked eleventh among stations on the kyoto line(26 stations,including yamato-saidaiji station).
it ranked ninth among 23 kintetsu stations located in kyoto prefecture.
station surroundings
seika town office
seika town seika junior high school
shin-hosono post office
social-welfare corporation soraku fukushikai,soraku workshop:board the nara kotsu bus from this station and get off at kashinoki-en.
yawata-kizu line of the kyoto prefectural route 22
bus
hosono station
nara kotsu bus lines co.,ltd.
no.1 boarding station
no.36-hikaridai inner circle loop line(via hikaridai 3-chome)
no.47-for gakken-nara-tomigaoka station(via vocational museum,keihanna plaza,hikaridai 2-chome,hikaridai-minami)
no.48-for gakken-nara-tomigaoka station(via vocational museum,keihanna plaza,ntt keihanna,hikaridai 2-chome)(one trip only on weekdays)
no.74-for kizu station(kyoto prefecture)(one trip only on sundays and national holidays)
no.2 boarding station
no.38-for gakkentoshi-seikadai(one trip only on weekdays)
no.39-for hikaridai 1-chome minami(via seikadai 1-chome,u-town keihanna)(one trip only on saturdays,sundays and national holidays)
no.41-for gakken-nara-tomigaoka station(via vocational museum,keihanna plaza,hikaridai 8-chome)
no.66-for kizugawadai-jutaku(via seikadai 1-chome,vocational museum)(two trips only on weekdays)
no.3 boarding station
no.73-for miyamaki station(one trip only on weekdays)
seika kururin bus-nara kotsu heijo branch office consigned operations
northern route
southern route
history
november 3,1928:the station opened when nara electric railway's services between momoyama goryo-mae station and saidaiji station(now yamato-saidaiji station)commenced.
it became a kintetsu corporation station on october 1,1963,due to the corporate merger.
september 14,1994:the station building and bridge over the platforms were integrated into a single structure.
march 15:the station was upgraded to a station at which express trains could stop.
april 1,2007:the use of pitapa cards commenced.
location
neighboring stations
kintetsu corporation
kyoto line
express
shin-tanabe station-shin-hosono station-takanohara station
local
komada station-shin-hosono station-kizugawadai station
