goma station
located in hiyoshi-cho,nantan city,kyoto prefecture,goma station is a stop on the sanin main line,which is operated by west japan railway company(jr west).
some limited express services make a stop here and many shuttle service trains arrive at and depart from this station.
but during the day,goma station serves as a passing loop and local trains often have to wait ten or more minutes to let express trains through.
station layout
goma station is a ground level station with one side platform and one island platform serving three tracks.
there is a station building but,since it is unmanned,there is an automatic ticket machine inside the building.
the side platform(track 1)adjoins the station building,and is connected by a bridge with the island platform(tracks 2&3).
track 1 serves as the main line when trains are crossing,so all limited express trains use this track.
when limited express trains are not passing,local trains also use track 1 but,as mentioned above,the station serves as a passing loop during the day,so this is only possible during the morning and evening.
in addition,the shuttle service train to and from sonobe station arrives at,and departs from,track 3.
passenger use
in fiscal year 2006,the number of passengers who used the station was about 400 a day.
(according to the kyoto prefecture statistics report)
surroundings
"sato no eki gomaya" (a complex of shops selling local farm produce and other products,located in front of the station)
grandvert kyoto golf club
mt.maruyama
nantan municipal gomago elementary school
"kayabuki ongaku-do" (the straw thatched music hall.every spring and autumn,the seiler piano duo comes here and puts on a performance,so several limited express services stop at goma station especially for the people going to the show.)
kyoto hiyoshi miyama line of the kyoto prefectural route 50
history
august 25,1910:goma station opened as a japan national railways stop.
began handling passengers and freight.
march 1,1963:stopped handling freight.
april 1,1987:taken over by jr west following division and privatization of japan national railways.
adjacent stations
*for information about stations used by the limited expresses 'tanba' (only outbound train), 'kinosaki' (only inbound train)and 'maizuru,' please refer to the article for that train.
west japan railway company(jr west)
sanin main line
shinkyudaigakumae station-goma station-shimoyama station(kyoto prefecture)
