shin-tanabe station
shin-tanabe station,located in kyotanabe city,kyoto prefecture,is a stop on the kintetsu kyoto line of kintetsu railways.
station layout
shin-tanabe station is an aboveground station with two island platforms serving four tracks,with the station house being on the bridge.
each platform has a length sufficient to accommodate six cars.
the station building is located on the bridge.
there is only one ticket gate to the station.
entrances are on the east and west sides of the station,and there is a station building on the west side.
limited express tickets and commuter tickets are sold at the station.
the automatic ticket gates were manufactured by toshiba;the red automatic ticket gate(eg-2000)can treat two tickets collectively when exiting,and it accepts pitapa/icoca cards.
the semi-express trains(operated only during rush hours)and local trains running on the line that connect with the kyoto municipal subway karasuma line(excluding an early morning train that leaves kintetsu-miyazu station for kokusaikaikan station)start from shin-tanabe station.
passenger use
according to a survey conducted on november 8,2005,26,625 passengers used shin-tanabe station that day.
the station ranked twenty-fifth among all kintetsu stations targeted by the survey(323 stations at the time of the survey)in terms of the number of passengers.
it ranked sixth among all stations on the kintetsu kyoto line(twenty-six stations,including yamato-saidaiji station).
it ranked fourth among the kintetsu stations located in kyoto prefecture(twenty-three stations).
shin-tanabe station,which provides connections to the matsuiyamate district and the eastern part of hirakata city,osaka prefecture,gets fairly crowded in the morning and evening.
station surroundings
kyotanabe station,on the katamachi line of the west japan railway company(jr west),is approximately five minutes on foot from shin-tanabe station.
al plaza kyotanabe
shin-tanabe station park
ikkyu-ji temple
mt.kannabi
tanabe central hospital
the shintanabe post office
the kyoto tanabe kawara post office
kyoto prefectural tanabe senior high school
the kintetsu saidaiji train depot
the shin-tanabe railway line section
keinawa expressway tanabe-nishi interchange:1.5 km west of the station
route bus services
keihan bus(major routes only)
route 31:osumigaoka-matsuiyamate station-keihan electric railway kuzuha station
route 61:tanabe high school-kusauchi
route 63:poem knoll kitayama
route 65:kyotanabe city hall-shin-tanabe station-osumigaoka-matsuiyamate station
route 67:jr osumi station-osumigaoka-matsuiyamate station
route 68:hata-osumigaoka-matsuiyamate station
route 69:mogadani
route 74:uchisato-keihan electric railway yawatashi station
route 75:iwata(yawata city)-keihan electric railway yawatashi station
buses for kansai gaidai university,hotani and tenno
nara kotsu bus
route 101:doshisha women's college of liberal arts main gate-doshisha university main gate-doshisha university faculty of engineering-doshisha university davis memorial auditorium(into the doshisha university campus)
other bus services,including those within the city
limousine services to kansai international airport are also available.
kyoto uji bus(major routes only)
route 62:tanabe high school-national hospital organization minami-kyoto hospital-ryokuenzaka newtown
history
november 3,1928:the station opened as a station of nara electric railway when the line between momoyamagoryomae station and saidaiji station(the present-day yamato-saidaiji station)was opened.
october 1,1963:the station became one of the stations of kintetsu railways due to the amalgamation that occurred.
october 9,1988:the station house was rebuilt on the bridge.
april 1,2007:pitapa cards came into use.
others
as with kodo station and miyamaki station,the area around the facility,where lodgings for the students of doshisha university and doshisha women's college of liberal arts are found,is relatively well developed.
location
adjacent stations
kintetsu railways
kyoto line
express(other than the following)
okubo station(kyoto prefecture)-shin-tanabe station-shin-hosono station
express(those running between kyoto station and kintetsu miyazu station)
okubo station-shin-tanabe station-kodo station
semi-express(stopping at every station from kyoto to kintetsu-tanbabashi station)
tonosho station-shin-tanabe station
local
tonosho station-shin-tanabe station-kodo station
