nagaoka station
nagaoka station,a railway station of the east japan railway company(jr east),is located in jonai-cho,nagaoka city,niigata prefecture.
lines
east japan railway company(jr east)
the joetsu shinkansen
the shinetsu main line
the joetsu line(although its official terminal station is miyauchi station(niigata prefecture),this station is in fact the station of origin and that of the terminal for all trains.)
station layout
platform
the platforms for conventional lines are located at the higashiguchi(east exit)side of the ground station and consist of three platforms for five tracks,specifically a platform of one track and two platforms for four tracks.
these platforms are connected by an overpass with ticket gates and transfer gates to the shinkansen,which are located on the second floor of the station building.
the underground passage used to be available for transfer between conventional lines,but it was abolished in the process of renovation.
as a measure for barrier-free operation,elevators are installed on platform 2 and 3 and that of platform 4 and 5.
platform 1,which is located on the oteguchi side,was used in the past by some limited express and express trains running between this station and niigata station,but due to the decrease in the number of limited express trains and the renovation of the station building that narrowed the stair space,no regular passenger trains use this platform at present,other than passing freight trains bound for niitsu station or passing overnight trains,so its current position is something akin to an ad-hoc platform.
because the stairway leading to platform 1 was closed in spring 2007,when the renovation of ticket gates located on the second floor of the station building was carried out,under normal conditions ordinary people aren't allowed to enter this platform.
the platforms of the joetsu shinkansen,which are located on the third floor of the elevated station building,currently consist of two platforms for two tracks with the tracks for passing trains located in between;however,they are allocated in anticipation of possible expansion to two island-style platforms for four tracks.
although platform 11 is categorized as a facing-style platform because the track is located only on the side of the tracks for passing trains,its elevated bridge has a structure identical to that of an island-style platform.
the other side of platform 11 is currently unused,having neither tracks nor wiring installed,but it is said that this platform was constructed in anticipation of future use by uetsu shinkansen.
on this platform,there are no kiosks so only vending machines are available.
similarly,platform 12 has a structure that would allow conversion to an island-style platform.
the other side of platform 12 is the exterior wall of the platform,but no elevated bridge has been constructed.
the reason for the above is that while the construction of an elevated bridge on platform 11 entails difficulties in coordination because it faces the station square,the construction on platform 12 could be done within the railway facilities;therefore,it was decided to construct an elevated bridge in the event of such a need.
there are kiosks and vending machines on this platform.
while both the inbound and outbound trains of the limited express 'twilight express' (overnight train service)running between osaka station and sapporo station stop at this station,both the inbound and outbound trains of the limited express 'nihonkai' (overnight train service)pass through this station.
the limited express 'hokuriku' (overnight train service),which connects ueno station and kanazawa station via the joetsu line,and the express 'noto' (overnight train service)don't stop at this station.
however,both the inbound trains and outbound trains of the above make a brief stop at line 3 due to the operational need to change locomotives by switchback.
this is the nearest station to the tokyo metropolitan area at which the 'twilight express' stops.
counter windows and facilities in the premises
this station is a japanese manned railway station,and the jr ticket office "midori-no-madoguchi" is available.
the work of the information office is outsourced to jr niigata business,a subsidiary of the east japan railway company's niigata branch.
within the premises of the station there are automatic ticket machines(while the jr ticket office "midori-no-madoguchi" and view plaza are integrated on the same floor),as well as a convenience store(newdays mini)and restrooms.
ekiben(box lunches sold on trains or at stations)are also sold at the station.
eight sets and three sets of automatic ticket gates are installed at the exits to the platforms of conventional lines and those of the shinkansen,respectively.
since the commencement of the suica service on march 15,2008 between nagaoka station and higashi-sanjo station of the shinetsu main line,suica,pasmo,toica and icoca have been usable at all ticket gates of conventional lines,and ticketless service of shinkansen's limited express tickets by mobile suica is also usable at all ticket gates of the shinkansen.
suica is not usable at the stations southward from this station,nor those of the joetsu line(however,in spring 2009 the suica commuter pass service will commence between nagaoka and niigata on the shinkansen).
aed(automated external defibrillator)units are provided at several points in the premises,including a manned ticket gate.
exits
this station has two exits.
oteguchi(oteguchi exit)
oteguchi is the original exit.
cocolo nagaoka' occupies the first and second floors of the station building.
there are three doorways at oteguchi,namely the north,central and south doorways.
as of october 1,2004,when 'tokky company' and 'echigo station development company' which had been engaged in the management of station buildings under the jurisdiction of the east japan railway company's niigata branch merged(tokky company was the merging company),the nickname for the three stations under the niigata branch's jurisdiction became 'cocolo.'
the old name of 'cocolo nagaoka' was 'saison deux,' after the food shop located on the first floor,and 'saison de nagaoka' for the rest of the building(both were managed by "echigo station development company").
there used to be a ticket gate that directly connected miyauchi side of the platform of track 1 and the first floor of "saison deux," but it was closed in the 1990s.
higashiguchi(east exit)
higashiguchi is located at the east side of the free passage.
hotel mets nagaoka,' affiliated with jr east,is directly linked to the free passage.
the higashiguchi side of the station used to be the central station of echigo kotsu tochio line(yukyuzan station-nagaoka station-tochio station).
the old site of tochio line's nagaoka station has become the higashiguchi rotary and the site of echigo kotsu building(the old daiei nagaoka store).
additionally,the underground passage connects oteguchi and higashiguchi.
others
in late 1990s,redevelopment work was carried out around the ticket gates located on the second floor of nagaoka station and the so-called 'eki-naka' (shops within the station building)was established.
however,as a result of such redevelopment the space around the ticket gates was narrowed substantially and the problem of complicated pedestrian traffic lines emerged.
in addition to the above,due to the fact that passengers had to pass the ticket gate of conventional trains before passing that of shinkansen,as double ticket examinations had been conducted until march 27,2007,as well as the fact that a fare adjustment office was located inside the ticket gate,the structure around the ticket gates of this station was the most complicated one by comparison to other shinkansen stations in niigata prefecture.
given such circumstances,nagaoka station was excluded from the list of target stations when automatic ticket checkers were introduced in major stations under the jurisdiction of the niigata branch in december 2005.
in light of the above problems,the niigata branch carried out the renovation work from autumn 2006 until spring 2007,which centered on the second floor of the station building.
on march 28,2007,the ticket gates of shinkansen and those of conventional lines became independent,and automatic ticket checkers were introduced at the ticket gates of conventional lines.
the jr ticket office "midori-no-madoguchi"/automatic ticket machines and the travel center(view plaza)were moved on march 30 and april 1 of the same year,respectively.
on april 7,the waiting room,for which japanese cedar grown in niigata prefecture were used as interior materials,was completed at the concourse within the ticket gates;this project made use of the 'initiative for promoting the use of trees of echigo origin' promoted by the niigata prefectural government.
ekiben
although three companies were once engaged in the manufacture and sale of ekiben at nagaoka station,nomoto bento-ten indefinitely suspended its business(and later closed down)due to the chuetsu earthquake,and as a result only ikedaya and nagaoka koyoken are currently in business.
because this is a station for transfer,it has long been taken up by the media,such as tv and magazines,as the battleground of ekiben;accordingly,various unique ekiben,such as 'hanabi-zushi' and 'hashigo bento,' have been created in response to heated competition.
ekiben are currently available at four locations,namely at the platform of joetsu shinkansen on the third floor(only platform 12),at the kiosk located on the shinkansen concourse on the second floor,at 'nagaoka-an,' a tachigui soba(buckwheat noodle)stand on the second floor(inside the ticket gates)and at newdays(outside the ticket gates).
outside the ticket gates,ekiben wagons are occasionally available.
the list of ekiben that are currently sold
asaake
ika(squid)ajitsuke-meshi(nagaoka koyoken)
ika(squid)hojo-meshi(nagaoka koyoken)
ikura(salmon roe)ichimatsu-zushi
echigo nagaoka hanabi-zushi(ikedaya)
kaen kamameshi(ikedaya)
kani(crab)-zushi(nagaoka koyoken)
gyu(beef)-meshi(ikedaya)
koshiji bento(ikedaya)
goken-hashigo obento(nagaoka koyoken)
sake(salmon)-soboro bento(ikedaya)
sasa-kodai-zushi
shun-no-kaze
choja bento(nagaoka koyoken)
tori-soboro bento
chosei obento
nishin-kazunoko-sake-ikura(ikedaya)
nihonkai(japan sea)sake-kani gassen(nagaoka koyoken)
hotate-mai(nagaoka koyoken)
maitake bento(nagaoka koyoken)
matsutake-meshi
ekiben that were sold in the past
echigo otedama-zushi(nomoto bento-ten)
hatahata(sandfish)sushi(nomoto bento-ten)
kaiseki bento
sake no sushi(nomoto bento-ten)
koshi no kamameshi
passenger use
average number of passengers daily in fiscal year 2005:11,318
average number of passengers daily in fiscal year 2006:11,308
surroundings
the area around the station has thrived as the center of nagaoka city from long ago,and in fact nagaoka-jo castle was located here.
along ote-dori street there used to be nagasakiya,nagaoka daiwa(department store),ichimura department store,marusen department store and marudai(niigata prefecture)nagaoka store,which was affiliated with ito-yokado.
ichimura department store,once converted to 'duck city ichimura,' which was affiliated with mycal,eventually withdrew and nagasakiya,which was located near oteguchi,also withdrew toward the end of the 1990s.
marusen had continued business using some of the floors,but ultimately it withdrew in late april 2007.
after all,only nagaoka daiwa and ito-yokado marudai,which relocated to the front of the station and adopted the new name that is capped with the parent company's name,are still alive at present(marudai's old store became a discount store called 'the price marudai' but eventually closed).
there used to be many shops,including restaurants,along the underground passage that connects the west and east sides of the station,but they closed in october 1989.
along the main street extending from the station there are many education-related enterprises,such as cram schools and preparatory schools.
like other local cities,the area around the station is not as bustling as it once was,as the flow of people has shifted to the suburbs.
this trend has accelerated in recent years and become a serious problem due to the opening of large-scale retail shops in the kawasaki/koshoji district as well a large-scale retail shop and a cinema complex that are under contemplation as part of a development project in the senshugahara district which is near the koshoji district.
given the circumstances,the underground parking area was constructed in front of oteguchi with the goal of drawing customers who drive cars,but an increase in the number of users has been less than expected.
daiei nagaoka store,which was located in the echigo kotsu building and was for a long time the landmark of higashiguchi side of the station,also closed as of august 31,2005,raising fears that the area around the station might empty out.
the echigo kotsu building had no anchor tenant for some time after daiei's withdrawal,but on december 1,2007, 'e・plaza,' the commercial complex of specialized stores consisting of thirteen stores--including miyawaki book-store and fashion-ichiba sanki--opened in the building.
the oteguchi side
the area on the oteguchi side is the central district of nagaoka city.
this area is a commercial district.
nagaoka-teishajo line of niigata prefectural route 36/national route 351(ote-dori street)
national route 352
nagaoka kosei kaikan
ito-yokado marudai nagaoka store
oteguchi underground parking area
nagaoka daiwa
nagaoka grand hotel
the daishi bank,ltd.,nagaoka branch
the hokuetsu bank,ltd.,head office
the taiko bank,ltd.,head office
resona bank,limited,nagaoka branch
first bank of toyama,nagaoka branch
the higashiguchi side
the area on the higashiguchi side is a district having a mixed commercial/residential zone.
the hotel mets chain
hotel new otani nagaoka
e・plaza(echigo kotsu building)
daiso-sangyo(second floor)
echigo kotsu head office(third floor)
konami sports&amp life(sixth floor)
nagaoka dn building
fm nagaoka
yoyogi seminar sateline seminar nagaoka school
niigata prefectural nagaoka high school
niigata prefectural nagaoka ote high school
nagaoka municipal sakanoue elementary school
yukyuzan baseball stadium,nagaoka city,fifteen minutes by bus
bus
bus terminals are located on both the oteguchi and higashiguchi sides.
when using a bus,attention should be paid because the terminal will differ according to the destination.
please refer to the echigo kotsu co.,ltd.website for information on the time schedule and other details.
oteguchi bus terminal
each bus stop is mutually linked by pedestrian crossways or underground passages,and the information booth is located at the no.2 bus stop near the station building.
a plan to convert the current bus terminal to a rotary-style bus terminal is under consideration based on the assertion that the current one is dangerous for users because they're required to use pedestrian crossings located in the path of moving buses.
since the riverside senshu,a shopping center whose core store is apita nagaoka,opened near to nagaoka red cross hospital,chronic delays have occurred in the operation of buses belonging to the head service office(whose bus depot is located nearby),particularly on saturdays,sundays and national holidays.
buses bound for izumozaki-shako depot starting from the no.2 stop and those starting from the no.7 and no.8 stops are available for passengers bound for riverside senshu.
(however,this excludes buses starting from the no.7 stop and bound for gidai(nagaoka university of technology)/nagamine-danchi(residential complex)/rekishi hakubutsukan(niigata prefectural museum of history)via choseibashi(bridge)/ote ohashi(bridge)).
bus stop no.1
[express bus]buses bound for ojiya/tokamachi-shako depot via new national route
*beginning on october 1,express buses bound from nagaoka station to tokamachi-shako depot via ojiya will run by way of jusco tokamachi store/harashin tokamachi store instead of tokamachi station west exit/sogo taiiku-kan(general gymnasium).
buses bound for ojiya interchange/ojiya honmachi via the new national route
buses bound for ojiya interchange via kyudo miyauchi/kami-gejo
buses bound for the ojiya interchange via koshiji-hashi(bridge)/iwano/ikezu/gohen/sanbusho
[express bus]buses bound for ojiya-shako depot via raikoji/katakai/tsubono
[express bus]buses bound for ojiya-shako depot via raikoji/katakai/kowada
bus stop no.2
buses bound for rengeji(osugi-koen park)via chosei-bashi/fukudo/wakinomachi/sakashidani/chuei
buses bound for izumozaki-shako depot via ote ohashi/nagaoka red cross hospital
*effective as of october 1,all buses bound from nagaoka station to izumozaki-shako depot will run via ote ohashi(bridge)/nagaoka red cross hospital.
buses bound for wakinomachi/miyazawa via choseibashi/fukudo
buses bound for yoita via koshoji/kawanegawa
buses bound for yoita via mitsugoya/kitamachi/kawanegawa
bus stop no.3
buses bound for oguni-shako depot via kawahigashi
buses bound for oguni-shako depot via kawanishi
buses bound for oyazawa via saizu
buses bound for ura/raikoji(koshiji chugakko(koshiji junior high school))via iijima
bus stop no.4
[highway bus]buses bound for niigata station/niigata airport via choseibashi(depending on the time period,the service is provided by niigata kotsu co.,ltd.,which is a joint operator).
[highway bus]buses bound for niigata station via kita-nagaoka station(depending on the time period,the service is provided by niigata kotsu co.,ltd.,which is a joint operator).
[highway bus]buses bound for niigata station via higashi bypass(depending on the time period,the service is provided by niigata kotsu co.,ltd.,which is a joint operator).
bus stop no.5
[rapid bus]buses bound for kashiwazaki station via sochi
[express bus]buses bound for kashiwazaki station via nishiyama
*express buses bound for kashiwazaki via sochi and express buses bound for nagaoka via sochi ceased service with the last bus of september 30,2007(so that express service via sochi was virtually abolished).
since october 1,2007,only rapid bus service has been provided via sochi and only express bus service has been provided via nishiyama.
bus stop no.6
buses bound for wakinomachi/miyazawa/yoita via sekihara(some buses depart from and arrive at red cross hospital)
buses bound for new-town/echigo kyuryo koen(echigo hillside park)via sekihara
buses bound for miyamoto(miyamoto 2-chome/miyamoto-shinpo)/ozumi(haige-iriguchi)/ozumi mishimadani/tashiro via sekihara
bus stop no.7
buses bound for the head service office/red cross hospital/kenritsu kindai bijutsukan(niigata prefectural museum of modern art)via ote ohashi
buses bound for nagamine-danchi/yuyu kenkomura(hospital)/gidai/new-town center/rekishi hakubutsukan via ote ohashi/choseibashi/kibogaoka
buses bound for koyo danchi(residential complex)via nakajima
buses bound for niigata psychiatric center/kita-nagaoka shako depot/nagaoka station via nakajima/koyo danchi
bus stop no.8
buses of the nagaoka city central loop line(junkan)bus service:inner loop(uchi mawari)/outer loop(soto mawari)
bus stop no.9
exclusively for arrivals
bus stop no.10
buses bound for miyauchi honcho via city hall
buses bound for nanbu kogyo danchi(industrial park)/maekawa/driving license center via city hall
nagaoka city south loop line(junkan)bus service:inner loop/outer loop
bus stop no.11
[express bus]buses bound for tochio-shako depot via shimo-gejo/mitsuke honmachi/kotsunagi
【express】buses bound for tochio-shako depot via shimo-gejo/mitsuke honmachi/nirebara
buses bound for higashi-sanjo station via the new national route
buses bound for higashi-sanjo station via kyudo wakamiya
buses bound for higashi-sanjo station via the new national route/poemu
buses bound for higashi-sanjo station via the new national route/poemu/saiseikai byoin(saiseikai sanjo hospital)
buses bound for higashi-sanjo station via kyudo wakamiya/saiseikai byoin
buses bound for imamachi 5-chome via nakanoshima
buses bound for bunsui station via nakanoshima/yokono
buses bound for bunsui station via nakanoshima/koya
buses bound for bunsui station via takami kogyo danchi/nakanoshima/yokono
bus stop no.12
[express bus]buses bound for teradomari omachi/koroni/onozumi via sumonzaki/yoita
buses bound for yoita via sumonzaki
buses bound for yoita/ojimaya station via makishita/narisawa
*buses bound from nagaoka station to ojimaya station via makishita/narisawa stopped running to red cross hospital as of september 30,2007.
bus stop no.13
buses bound for niigata psychiatric center/ecotopia kotobuki via tachikawa general hospital/aramachi
buses bound for koyo danchi via tachikawa general hospital/aramachi/kita-nagaoka shako depot/niigata psychiatric center
buses bound for takaramachi via tachikawa general hospital/ishiuchi/aramachi shogakko(aramachi elementary school)-mae/zao
higashiguchi bus terminal
the bus stops are mutually linked by pedestrian crossways,and the information booth is located on the first floor of the old daiei nagaoka store(which is also the information booth for highway bus service).
bus stop no.1
buses bound for yukyuzan/joganji via shokuan(employment service agency)
bus stop no.2
buses bound for yukyuzan via yukyuzan-koen(park)
direct buses bound for nagaoka kosen(nagaoka national college of technology)
bus stop no.3
buses bound for miyauchi station via doai/hizume
buses bound for kami-gejo/takiya/muikaichi
buses bound for miyauchi/muramatsu
buses of nagaoka city south loop line(junkan)bus service:inner loop/outer loop
highway buses bound for kyoto/nanba/sakai(depending on the day,the service is provided by nankai bus co.,ltd.,which is a joint operator).
bus stop no.4
[rapid bus]buses bound for tochio-shako depot via shinenoki tunnel
[rapid bus]buses bound for tochio-shako depot via kuwasagashi toge(mountain pass)
[rapid bus]buses bound for tochio-shako depot via tachikawa general hospital/shinenoki tunnel
buses bound for chuetsu high school//kozone/fukushima/tsubakizawa via hoshiba/niibo
buses bound for horigane/kozone via kawasaki
buses bound for nagaoka chuo general hospital/otoyoshi/urase/kami-mitsuke shako depot/mitsuke station
bus stop no.5
buses bound for urase/kami-mitsuke shako depot/mitsuke station via tachikawa general hospital/aramachi
bus stop no.6
buses bound for hachibuse/suyoshi/yukyuzan via hanazono/nagakura
direct buses bound for chuetsu high school
bus stop no.7
buses bound for kaki via takamachi/nagaoka onsen(hot spring)
[mitsuke express]buses bound for kami-mitsuke shako depot
bus stop no.8
direct buses bound for nagaoka shogyo koko(niigata nagaoka commercial high school)
exclusively for the arrivals of highway buses
history
june 16,1898:this station commenced operation when hokuetsu railway line opened in the section between higashi-sanjo station and nagaoka station.
general railway station
december 27,1898:hokuetsu railway line was extended to kitajo station.
august 1,1907:hokuetsu railway was nationalized pursuant to the railway nationalization act,and this station became part of japan national railways(jnr).
september 9,1916:tochio railway line(later echigo kotsu tochio line)started running through,into the station.
october 1,1947:the facilities within the premises of jnr's station were electrified.
november 15,1967:freight-service work was transferred to minami-nagaoka station.
april 1,1975:the echigo kotsu tochio line was abolished.
november 15,1982:the joetsu shinkansen came into operation,and this station came to serve as a facility for brief stops.
april 1,1987:jr east succeeded the station due to the division and privatization of jnr.
october 23,2004:the station experienced the effects of the chuetsu earthquake.
the station suffered damage such as water leakage from the broken ceiling of the free passage at higashiguchi.
the station was temporarily off-limits due to aftershocks,and for a while the operation impeded.
march 28,2007:automatic ticket checkers were introduced at the ticket gates of conventional lines.
march 15,2008:suica and the ticketless service for limited express tickets by mobile suica became available.
adjacent stations
east japan railway company
the joetsu shinkansen
urasa station-nagaoka station-tsubame-sanjo station
the sinetsu main line
miyauchi station(niigata prefecture)-(minami-nagaoka station(freight station))-nagaoka station-kita-nagaoka station
the joetsu line
miyauchi station-(nagaoka station)
*this is the station of origin and the terminal of all local trains on the joetsu line.
