gojo station(keihan)
located at 8-chome miyagawa-suji,higashiyama ward,kyoto city,in kyoto prefecture,gojo station is a stop on the keihan main line of the keihan electric railway.
express trains and other trains of slower categories stop at this station.
the color tone of this station is green.
this is the color code depicting the resistance value of resistance units,and it denotes the numeral '5.'
this station was scheduled to be renamed kiyomizu-gojo station,simultaneously with the inauguration of the keihan nakanoshima line on october 19,2008.
station layout
it's an underground station with one so-called island platform between two tracks.
it is located at gojo ohashi higashitsume,directly under the intersection of kawabata-dori and gojo-dori streets.
the tickets gates and concourse are on the first underground level,while the platforms are on the second underground level.
ticket gates are installed in only one location;an elevator,and ascending/descending escalators are installed between the concourse and platform levels,but there is just one ascending escalator available between the concourse and the ground above.
boarding platform
※each of the platforms has a length sufficient to accommodate eight cars.
an automated announcement of the number of cars comprising trains is made only at platform 2.
station surroundings
otani mausoleum
rokuhara mitsu-ji temple
kiyomizu-dera temple
gojo ohashi bridge(kamo-gawa river(yodo-gawa river system))
higashiyama ward consolidated office facilities
higashiyama ward office,higashiyama health center,higashiyama ward social welfare office,higashiyama ward library
higashiyama ward aged people's welfare center,higashiyama ward youth activity center,regional gymnasium
higashiyama post office(kyoto prefecture)
higashiyama takeda hospital(formerly kyoto monopoly corporation hospital)
gojo-dori street(national route 1)
kawabata-dori street
bus boarding station
gojo keihan-mae
located at gojo ohashi higashitsume(gojo-dori street and kawabata-dori street intersection)along gojo-dori street
kyoto city bus
route 80,for kawaramachi station(kyoto prefecture)(via gojozaka and gion)
keihan bus
for oyake,daigo and keihan rokujizo
for shijo-kawaramachi,shijo-karasuma,shijo-omiya
express bus routes
hokuriku highway bus(keihan bus,west jr bus)
express bus for yokkaichi ※(keihan bus,mie kotsu)
express bus for tsu-eki-mae※(kintetsu bus,mie kotsu)
(※indicates operations that commenced march 20,2008.)
history
this was the starting-point station when operations commenced;at that time,the station building stood on the southern side of gojo-dori street.
even after the extension of the line to sanjo station,gojo station continued to be a station at which express trains stopped after 1916,such an arrangement changed during wwii and there was an era during which gojo station was the only stop between shichijo station and sanjo station,in which neither super express nor express train stops were made for quite some time.
it is considered that,unlike shijo and shichijo,the situation was due to the fact that kyoto city trams did not cross.
moreover,the forced demolition south of gojo-dori street,which took place toward the end of wwii(july 1945),created lots of empty space,but as a plan to widen gojo-dori street came up in or around 1955 the station was relocated from south of gojo-dori street to the north of it and the present gojo ohashi bridge was constructed.
thereafter,the 'higashiyama bypass' linking the south of otani mausoleum to sanjo-dori street just before osakayama via yamashina was constructed,and the national route 1 was changed from sanjo-dori street where keishin line ran to gojo-dori street;this caused severe chronic congestion to occur at the gojo grade crossing during the morning and evening rush hours.
incidental to the execution of city planning for grade separation involving the keihan line in 1972,the work of taking it underground commenced in 1979.
it became an underground station in may 1987 and the city planning road 'kawabata-dori street,' constructed on land where surface tracks once existed,opened to traffic in may 1988,thereby completing the underground project.
april 15,1910:the station was inaugurated as keihan main line's kyoto terminal.
april 1,1916:the station became a station at which express trains could stop.
june 29,1935:massive flooding of the kamo-gawa river,the collapse of gojo ohashi bridge and damage to the sanjo-bound platform occurred.
october 1,1943:the station became a station for the keihanshin-kyuko-dentetsu,as a result of the corporate merger.
february 5,1944:the station became a non-stop station for express trains.
september 15,1945:the station operations were suspended.
may 13,1946:the station reopened for business.
december 1,1949:the station became a keihan electric railway station due to the corporate spin-off.
january 1957:the sanjo-bound platform was relocated from the southern side to the northern side of gojo-dori street due to the project of reconstructing(widening)gojo ohashi bridge.
march 20,1979:the work of going underground commenced.
october 23,1982:the yodoyabashi-bound platform was relocated from the northern side to the southern side of gojo-dori street,incidental with the commencement of underground construction work.
may 24,1987:the station was completed as an underground station.
july 15,1987:the facility was inundated up to platform level due to flooding.
operations were suspended all day but commenced again with the first train of the following day.
may 10,1988:the work of converting the keihan line to a subway system was completed,and kawabata-dori street above opened to traffic.
september 1,1988:the 'no smoking throughout the day' rule went into effect within station premises.
september 27,1989:the station became a station at which express trains would stop again after an interval of 45 years,pursuant to a revised timetable prepared for operation of the keihan oto line.
october 19,2008:gojo station was scheduled to be renamed kiyomizu gojo station effective.
neighboring stations
keihan electric railway
keihan main line
k-ltd.express/super express
non-stop
express/local express/local
shichijo station-gojo station-shijo station(keihan)
※during the daytime only six local trains make stops each hour.
