kyotanabe station
kyotanabe station,located in tanabe kudo,kyotanabe city,kyoto prefecture,is a stop on the katamachi line of the west japan railway company(jr west).
it's a major station in kyotanabe city.
icoca and j-through cards can be used at this station.
suica,toica,pitapa(surutto kansai association)cards,which are mutually matched with icoca,can also be used here.
because four-car trains run between kizu station and kyotanabe station and seven-car trains run between kyotanabe and kyobashi station(as well as the jr tozai line),car coupling or splitting is done at this station.
station layout
located at ground level,the station has two island-type platforms with three tracks,and another track can be added.
two platforms are connected by the overpass,which works as a station house,and there are four elevators:two for between each platform and the station house,and another two outside the ticket gates,at the east and west ends of the station house.
the east exit and the al plaza(heiwado)are connected by means of the passage.
the former station was a one-story building in the old residential style,and was said to have been built in the meiji period.
the old station had two separate platforms and two tracks that ran in opposite directions,and between those two tracks there was another one for freight lines.
the station house was on the side of platform bound for kyobashi station;when going to the platform bound for kizu,the railroad crossing,which was in the direction of doshishamae station,was used.
the waiting room was used for the track-and-signals operation,and traces of the operation were left behind.
between 1972 and 1992,this station had no station staff to check tickets;there were only operating personnel.
platform 3 is used only in the morning and evening rush hours.
basically,platform 1 and 2 are used.
even though there are three platforms,the departure platform for each train is not fixed throughout the day.
this is because there is no lead track,so cars that have split must wait in order to be coupled on one of three platforms.
the following is an example of daytime platform usage:
while coupling cars are waiting on platform 2,the train bound for kyobashi arrives on platform 2 and connects the coupling cars.
simultaneously,another train bound for kizu arrives at platform 1 and departs,leaving the split cars.
the next train bound for kyobashi arrives at platform 1 and connects the cars from which the train for kizu had split.
at the same time,another train bound for kizu arrives at platform 2 and departs,leaving the split cars.
the above procedure is repeated.
it's a rotational system operation.
it is possible that the platform usage will be fixed in terms of direction after the completion of the platform extension work between kizu and doshishamae,but as of now the details aren't clear(however,platform 2 will be used for passing through).
station surroundings
shin-tanabe station,of the kintetsu kyoto line,is located 300 meters(a walk of about seven minutes)east of the station.
given that both stations are gateways to the city,their surroundings have been improved.
kyotanabe city is well known for premium refined green tea(gyokuro).
shuon-an temple(ikkyu-ji temple),which is associated with ikkyu sojun(the zen buddhist monk ikkyu),is west of the station,while the kyotanabe city hall and tanabe-koen park are south of the station.
other facilities in the area include the kyotanabe city central library,ja kyoto yamashiro,commerce and industry house and the tanabe public health center.
a pair of driving wheels and a number plate of the jnr steam locomotive(c11 class)can be seen east of the station.
these are from the steam locomotive no.324,which had been conserved there.
passenger use
according to research conducted in fiscal year 2006,approximately 6,063 people used the facility each day.
(according to the kyoto prefecture statistics report)
many passengers use this station to transfer to shin-tanabe station of the kintetsu line.
history
april 12,1898:the station opened,and was called tanabe station of kansei railway company when the line was extended between nagao station(osaka prefecture)and shin-kizu(which was eventually abandoned).
october 1,1907:kansei railway company was nationalized.
april 1,1987:the station became part of the west japan railway company(jr west)due to the division and privatization of jnr.
march 8,1997:prior to the municipalization of kyotanabe city,the station's name was changed to kyotanabe station.
february 2,2002:the new station house,in the bridge style,was completed.
location
adjacent stations
west japan railway company(jr west)
gakkentoshi line(katamachi line)
rapid/regional rapid/local
doshishamae station-kyotanabe station-osumi station
