nishi-kizu station
nishi-kizu station,located at 55 saganaka kawanoshiri,kizugawa city,kyoto prefecture,is a stop on the katamachi line,which is operated by the west japan railway company(jr west).
station layout
it's an aboveground station having a single platform,only one side of which is used by passengers boarding and exiting trains.
due to its bar-like structure,trains for kizu and kyobashi start from and arrive at the same platform.
although the current platform can only support up to four cars,platforms of the stations located between kizu station and doshishamae station(including this station)will be extended by approximately march 2010(the end of fiscal year 2009)so that they can support up to eight cars,as part of a plan to operate seven-car trains.
it's an unmanned station that has no actual station building but has an inverted u-shaped structure at the entrance to the platform,in which an automatic ticket machine and a simple ticket gate for icoca and j-through card are in place.
the simple ticket gate can't handle more than one j-through card at a time.
station surroundings
the yamashiro kizu post office
kizugawa municipal kizu junior high school
kizugawa municipal saganaka elementary school
saganaka-jinja shrine
national route 163
passenger use
the average daily number of passengers in fiscal year 2006 was 477.
(according to the kyoto prefecture statistics report)
history
december 1,1952:the station became operational.
april 1,1987:it was placed under the control of jr west due to the division and privatization of jnr.
march 11,1989:with the electrification of the section between nagao and kizu,the station was relocated 100 meters closer to kizu and a new simple station building was established.
location information
adjacent stations
west japan railway company(jr west)
gakkentoshi line(katamachi line)
rapid train/regional rapid/local(only outbound trains are available for regional rapid service)
kizu station(kyoto prefecture)-nishi-kizu station-hosono station
