uzumasa-koryuji station
uzumasa-koryuji station,located in uzumasa-kumiishi-cho,ukyo ward,kyoto city,is a stop on the arashiyama main line,which is operated by keifuku electric railroad co.,ltd.
with koryu-ji temple located immediately northwest of this station,the sight of a tram running on the tramway laid on the road in front of the two-story gate is a highlight of riding a tram on the(randen)line of the keifuku electric railroad.
prior to march 18,2007,the facility was called uzumasa station.
the station number is a8.
station layout
the station is located at ground level,with two platforms serving two tracks between them.
with the entrances to stores,the front doors of private houses as well as the entrances to narrow alleys facing the platform for the trams going toward arashiyama station(keifuku electric railroad),the platform also serves as a section of roadway.
station surroundings
koryu-ji temple
the ukyo fire station
the ukyo police station
kyoto uzumasa eigamura(toei movie land)
kyoto municipal uzumasa elementary school
kyoto prefectural route 112:nijoteishajo-arashiyama line
osake-jinja shrine
history
march 25,1910:the facility went into operation as taishimae station of arashiyama electric tramway.
april 2,1918:the companies concerned merged,and it became a station of kyoto dento,an electric power company.
march 2,1942:the tramway was transferred to keifuku electric railroad co.,ltd.,and this station became a facility of that company.
april 16,1944:its name was changed to uzumasa station.
march 19,2007:its name was changed to uzumasa-koryuji station.
others
a portion of 'a jinsei ni namida ari(life is full of tears),' the theme song of the "mitokomon" samurai drama tv series(run during the national theatre hour),is used as the background music for the announcement made in the tram immediately after a tram departs from a station adjacent to this station.
this is because the station is the one nearest to the toei movie land and the toei kyoto movie studio.
adjacent stations
keifuku electric railroad
arashiyama main line
kaikonoyashiro station(a7)-uzumasa-koryuji station(a8)-katabiranotsuji station(a9/b1)
