takeda station(kyoto prefecture)
takeda station,located in fushimi ward,kyoto city,kyoto prefecture,is a stop on kyoto municipal subway and kintetsu railways.
the trains providing through-service between the kintetsu kyoto line and the karasuma line of kyoto municipal subway enter either the kintetsu line or the subway line at this station.
all trains except limited express ones stop at this station now(for a period of time,the rapid express trains that ran on the kintetsu kyoto line also stopped at this station),but only local trains stopped here until the karasuma line of kyoto municipal subway started operations in 1988.
lines
kyoto municipal subway
the karasuma line of kyoto city subway(station number k15):*this station is a terminal station of this line,but some trains on this line enter the kintetsu line directly and run on the line as well.
kintetsu railways
kintetsu kyoto line
station layout
it has two island platforms serving four tracks;platform 2 and 3 are used by trains that provide through service with the karasuma line of kyoto municipal subway,and platform 1 and 4 are used by those coming from or going to kintetsu kyoto station.
you can change a train on the kintetsu line to that on the subway or vice versa on the same platform of this station,which is much easier than making a train change at kyoto station,except when getting on a kintetsu limited express train.
however,some passengers who come from the north of gojo station of the subway and go to a far destination using the kintetsu line appear to change trains intentionally at kyoto station in order to secure their seats.
in the south of platform 2 and 3,two side tracks are provided.
a train bound for takeda station on the karasuma line of kyoto municipal subway enters a side track when arriving at platform 2 of this station,changes its direction there and then enters platform 3 as a train bound for kokusaikaikan station.
the takeda depot is provided in the northwest of karasuma station,and the tracks for entering/exiting the depot branch from the main tracks in the north of platform 2 and 3.
two station houses,one on the north side and the other on south side,are provided,each of which is an over-track station.
the meishin expressway runs over the railway tracks immediately on the south side of the north side station house.
the automatic ticket gates were manufactured by omron.
features
this station,used by both the kyoto municipal transportation bureau and kintetsu,is under the control of the kyoto municipal transportation bureau(but kintetsu controlled this station before the through-service operation started).
therefore,the specifications of the equipment,such as automatic ticket gates,are those for kyoto municipal subway,and j-through cards can't be used directly for the automatic ticket gates.
when a j-through card is to be used,the card must be inserted into a fare-adjustment machine when exiting through one of the gates;a train ticket must be purchased with an automatic ticket vending machine using the card.
being usable both on the subway and kintetsu lines,cards supporting kansai thru pass can be used for the automatic ticket gates.
the specifications of other facilities,guide signs and the design of the station name boards are also basically those for kyoto municipal subway,but solari-type train-information display based on kintetsu specifications are used on platforms for the kintetsu line(for platforms 1 and 4)(the exterior color is changed),and the announcements are also made according to kintetsu specifications.
when a through-service train,running from the subway to the kintetsu line,departs from platform 2,an announcement based on specifications of the subway is made but the buzzer used for the departure is made based on kintetsu specifications.
for trains for kintetsu nara station,the train-information display board for platform 1 displays 'nara' but that for platform 2 indicates 'kintetsu nara' (both subway trains and kintetsu trains equally use 'nara' for the destination blind).
both the karasuma line of kyoto municipal subway and the kintetsu kyoto line operate their trains via kyoto station,but the train fare from this station to kyoto station on the subway and that on the kintetsu line are different(as of april 2004,the fare on the kintetsu kyoto line is lower).
the train fares for kyoto station from stations in the south of this station differ from those for the subway and kintetsu lines,and when you exit through a gate at the subway kyoto station with a ticket for the kintetsu kyoto station,you are required to pay an additional fare(on the kyoto municipal subway lines,train fare inconsistency also exists for the through-service operation at yamashina station on the tozai line of the subway and/or the keihan yamashina station on the keihan keishin line).
to avoid problems concerned with this situation,fare announcements are made within the subway trains concerned when they depart from this station.
passenger use
kyoto municipal subway
in fiscal year 2005,the daily number of passengers using this station was 47,104(including those using the through-service to the kintetsu kyoto line).
kintetsu railways
according to a survey conducted on november 8,2005,a total of 11,454 passengers used this station.
this number makes the facility sixty-eighth among all kintetsu line stations surveyed(323 stations,as of when the survey was conducted).
of the stations on the kyoto line(twenty-six stations including yamato-saidaiji station),this station ranked twelfth.
of kintetsu's stations in kyoto prefecture(twenty-three),this station is tenth.
(from the official home page of kintetsu corporation)
station surroundings
the headquarters offices of kyocera are approximately five minutes from this station by a kyoto city bus.
pulse plaza
kyoto municipal science center for youth
jonan-gu shrine
anrakuju-in temple
the kyoto takeda post office
takeda elementary school,kyoto city
the takeda rail yard of the kyoto municipal transportation bureau(on the northwestern side of this station)
the "fushimi chikaranoyu" public bath service
kyoto-south interchange on meishin expressway
the jonanngu-north entrance/exit on the hanshin expressway no.8 kyoto route
fukakusa bus stop*a walk of about 300 meters east from this station
buses on the major highway bus routes stop here.
keihan main line fujinomori station*due east approximately 1.2 km
bus
the nearest stops are east exit of takeda station,located in the traffic circle at the east entrance to takeda station,and west exit of takeda station,located in the traffic circle at the west entrance to takeda station.
the following routes are operated by kyoto municipal transportation bureau or by the keihan bus co.,ltd.
eest exit of takeda station
kyoto city bus
route 81 and special route 81 by yokooji eigyosho(yokooji business office)of kyoto city bus:bound for kyoto station,and bound for yokooji-shako deepot via chushojima station
south route 5 by yokooji eigyosho(yokooji business office)of kyoto city bus:bound for kyoto station
rinnan route 5 by yokooji eigyosho(yokooji business office)of kyoto city bus:circulating between jr-fujinomori station and the fujinomori-jinja shrine area
south route 8 by yokooji eigyosho(yokooji business office)of kyoto city bus:bound for yokooji-shako depot via kokudo otesuji
keihan bus
daigo takeda route by keihan bus yamashina eigyosho(yamashina business office):bound for daigo station via daigo kita danchi(daigo north housing complex)
west exit of takeda station
kyoto city bus
route 18 and special route 18 by yokooji eigyosho(yokooji business office)of kyoto city bus:bound for mibu soshajo-mae and for koga ishiharacho
south route 1 by yokooji eigyosho(yokooji business office)of kyoto city bus:bound for the area of east exit of katsura station
south route 2 and special south route 2 by yokooji eigyosho(yokooji business office)of kyoto city bus:bound for east exit of jr nagaokakyo station via menkyo shikenjo-mae(driver's license center)
south route 2 and special south route 2 by yokooji eigyosho(yokooji business office)of kyoto city bus:bound for east exit of jr nagaokakyo station via hizume-guchi
south route 3 by yokooji eigyosho(yokooji business office)of kyoto city bus:bound for yokooji-shako depot via chushojima station
keihan bus and keihan city bus
daigo chushojima route by yamashina eigyosho(yamashina business office)of keihan bus:bound for daigo bus terminal via south exit of momoyama
buses on the general routes by keihan bus rakunan eigyosho(rakunan business office)of keihan bus(the keihan city bus):bound for yodo station
history
november 15,1928:this station went into operation as jonangumae station when nara electric railway started between kyoto and momoyamagoryomae station.
this initial facility was located approximately 350 meters south of the present takeda station.
april 1,1940:its name was changed to takeda station.
october 1,1963:nara electric railway was merged into kintetsu corporation.
june 11,1988:when kyoto municipal subway opened the karasuma line(between kyoto and takeda)extending its line,the station house was moved to the present site,approximately 350 meters north of the former site.
since then,this station has been under the control of kyoto municipal subway.
the status of this station on the kintetsu kyoto line has been raised to that of the station where express trains and semi-express trains stop.
august 28,1988:the kintetsu kyoto line and the karasuma line of kyoto municipal subway started through-service between their respective lines.
march 17,1998:when the train schedule was changed and the rapid-express train service was introduced on the kintetsu kyoto line,this station was selected as the one where such trains would stop.
march 15,2000:the through-service of express trains was launched between kokusaikaikan station on the karasuma line and kintetsu nara station.
march 6,2003:when the train schedule was changed,the operation of rapid-express trains on the kintetsu kyoto line was abolished.
april 1,2007:pitapa came into use.
train cars using this station
the train cars used on the karasuma line of kyoto municipal subway are those owned by the kyoto municipal transportation bureau(kyoto municipal subway series 10 train cars)and those owned by kintetsu(kintetsu series 3200 and 3220 train cars),and they are easily differentiated.
the train cars owned by kintetsu(series 3200 and series 3220)are also used for those starting at and returning to kintetsu kyoto station.
of them,two trains of the 3220 series cars have been painted to commemorate the through-service between kyoto and nara.
the series 3200 cars and series 3220 cars bound for kokusaikaikan station on the kintetsu kyoto line enter the karasuma line of the subway or are for kintetsu kyoto station.
on the express trains bound for kokusaikaikan station,the destination display is changed from 'express kokusaikaikan' to 'kokusaikaikan' (no operation type is displayed).
on the 3200 series train cars,the background of the type display becomes black.
adjacent stations
kyoto municipal subway
karasuma line
kuinabashi station(k14)-takeda station(k15)(-for shintanabe/nara on the kintetsu line)
kintetsu railways
kyoto line
express/semi-express
toji station-takeda station-kintetsu-tanbabashi station
local
kamitobaguchi station-takeda station-fushimi station(kyoto prefecture)
