iwakura station(kyoto prefecture)
located in the sakyo ward of kyoto city,iwakura station is a stop on the kurama line of the eizan-dentetsu(eizan electric railway).
station layout
the station has two platforms serving two tracks that face each other.
each platform has an entrance and a ramp.
the station is an unmanned station with ticket vending machines and a toilet installed on the demachiyanagi station-bound platform.
the ticket vending machines are in operation from 7 a.m.to 5 p.m.on weekdays and from 9 a.m.to 5 p.m.on saturdays and holidays,while the station staff is at work only from 7 a.m.to 9 a.m.on weekdays to accept reservations of commuter passes.
the roofs cover almost the entirety of the platforms.
two platforms are accessed by a level crossing on the prefectural route,on the demachiyanagi station side.
previously,the platforms were accessed by stairs from the level crossing on the prefectural route,as with other stations,but the station adopted the current barrier-free design in 2006 when the kyoto city iwakura district support center opened in the adjacent area.
station surroundings
the station is located in a residential area(because large-scale development,including high-rise apartment buildings,is prohibited in the iwakura district,an urbanization control area,independent houses and low-rise apartment buildings are the major construction),and faces the koyama-iwakura teishajo line of the kyoto prefectural route 106.
it is a distance of about 1 km the station to the kokusaikaikan station on the karasuma line of the kyoto municipal subway,and it's accessible on foot;thus there is a guide 'to subway kokusai-kaikan station' at the exit.
kyoto municipal rakuhoku junior high school
iwakura river
ogaki books(ogaki shoten),iwakura branch
kyoto iwakura post office
jissoin temple
kyoto city iwakura district support center
bus stop
iwakura-eki-mae(iwakura station)
(near the intersection at the prefectural route,which is 300 meters to the north of the station.)
kyoto bus
bound for jissoin temple,iwakura muramatsu,kokusai-kaikan station,kitaoji station,demachiyanagi station,shijo-kawaramachi and kyoto station(even if the destination is the same,boarding stations differ according to routes,therefore attention should be paid)
history
after world war ii,the station served as the end of the double-track section for 32 years beginning in 1958,so many shuttle trains were in operation,arriving at and returning from the station.
no shuttle train has operated since the double-track section was extended to nikenchaya station.
december 1,1928:the station opened under the ownership of the kurama electric railway.
august 1,1942:the station came under the ownership of the keifuku electric railroad due to the amalgamation.
november 10,1944:the line between yamabana station(currently takaragaike station)and nikenchaya station(kyoto prefecture),including iwakura station,became a single track for the delivery of supplies for the war.
april 9,1958:the line between takaragaike station and iwakura station became a double track again.
april 1,1986:the station came under the ownership of the eizan electric railway due to the reorganization of companies.
september 28,1990:the line between iwakura station and nikenchaya station became a double track again.
april 1,2006:the kyoto city iwakura district support center opened in the adjacent area.
the station has been remodeled to the current construction to adopt barrier-free design.
neighboring stations
eizan electric railway
kurama line
hachimanmae station(kyoto prefecture)-iwakura station-kino station
