tango-kanno station
tango-kanno station,located in urake kumihama-cho,kyotango city,kyoto prefecture,is a stop on the miyazu line,which is operated by kitakinki tango railway(ktr).
the simple jobs of this station are outsourced.
station layout
situated on the ground level,it's provided with two separate platforms serving two tracks between them.
with no bridge across railroads,one must still use a railroad crossing to move between the platforms.
the old wooden station house has been reformed to the present one with a lovely view to the outside.
station surroundings
the shotenkyo sea-bathing beach is famous,having been selected as one of the 88 most excellent sea-bathing beaches in japan.
tango kami-no-onsen(a hot spring of the gods in tango)
the kuminohama hot-spring area
kumihama sankaikan
it's a store that displays all things typical of kumihama,and the 'meshiru' restaurant is located there as well.
national route 178 and the urake bypass
the kanno natural food store
buses
kyotango city bus
passenger use
in fiscal year 2006,the average daily number of passengers who boarded at this station was 88.
(according to the kyoto prefecture statistics report)
around the station,sea-bathing beaches in the summer and oyster cuisine in the winter are famous,and the shotenkyo sea-bathing beach is close by too.
therefore,one can't make light of the number of station users in the summer.
history
august 10,1932:the operation between tango-kitsu(present kitsu-onsen)and kumihama started,completing the planned construction of the line.
the station was activated when the names of the mineyama and minetoyo lines were changed to the mineyama line.
april 1,1987:due to the division and privatization of japan national railways,it became a station of west japan railway company(jr west).
april 1,1990:the miyazu line was transferred to kitakinki tango railway,and it became a station of that railway company.
adjacent stations
kitakinki tango railway(ktr)
miyazu line
kitsu-onsen station-tango-kanno station-koyama station
