nishikyogoku station
nishikyogoku station,located in ukyo ward,kyoto city,is a stop on the hankyu kyoto line,which is operated by the hankyu railway.
the station has a sub-station name of nishikyogoku-sogoundokoen-mae(nishikyogoku comprehensive sports park).
station layout
nishikyogoku station is an elevated station with two platforms serving two tracks;the station is on the banking.
the ticket gate and concourse are on the first floor.
there is one ticket gate;the entrance of the station is on the south side of the platform.
there is also a temporary ticket gate on the platform for kawaramachi,which is used when the kyoto city nishikyogoku comprehensive sports park holds matches of the professional baseball league,japan soccer league or kansai big6 baseball league(e.g.,a match between doshisha university and ritsumeikan university).
there is also a ramped temporary ticket gate on the platform for osaka.
a remnant of an iron bridge branching off the main track remains on the south of the platform for kawaramachi,which is assumed to be a trace of the shinkeihan railway era when a freight railway station was going to be built according to a plan to extend a railway line to nagoya city.
platform numbers aren't assigned.
passenger use
the number of passengers per day was about 8,611 in fiscal year 2005(according to the kyoto prefecture statistics report).
station surroundings
kyoto city nishikyogoku comprehensive sports park
kyoto nishikyogoku baseball stadium(wakasa stadium kyoto)
kyoto nishikyogoku athletic stadium,etc.
the kyoto nishikyogoku post office
nishikyogoku elementary school,kyoto city
kyoto koka women's university
kadonooji-dori street
bus stop
hankyu nishikyogoku
the bus stop isn't in front of the station but on the kadonooji-dori street,a two-minute walk from the station.
kyoto city bus
route 84:bound for uzumasa tenjingawa station/for kyoto station hachijoguchi avanti-mae(via kuzebashi-dori street)
other bus stops around the station(about a five-minute walk)are koka joshi gakuen-mae(kyoto city bus route:32,73,80;kyoto bus co.,ltd.(for kyoto station-gojo-dori street-arashiyama))and senshoji(kyoto city bus route:special 33;keihan kyoto kotsu).
history
november 1,1928:the station was opened when the section between takatsuki-cho station and kyoto saiin station of the shinkeihan railway was opened.
september 15,1930:nishikyogoku station became a stop on the shinkeihan line,operated by the keihan electric railway,as a result of amalgamation.
october 1,1943:nishikyogoku station came to be a stop on the kyoto line,operated by the keihanshin express railway(the current hankyu railway),as a result of amalgamation.
adjacent stations
hankyu railway
kyoto main line
commuter limited express/limited express/rapid express
(commuter)limited express,limited express and rapid express trains don't stop at nishikyogoku station.
semi express/local
katsura station-nishikyogoku station-saiin station
when the kyoto city nishikyogoku comprehensive sports park holds matches of the professional baseball league or the japan soccer league,rapid express trains(called "express" in the schedule of 2001 and before)sometimes temporarily stop at the station.
