hiyoshi station(kyoto prefecture)
located in hiyoshi-cho,nantan city,kyoto prefecture,hiyoshi station is a stop on the sanin main line,which is operated by the west japan railway company(jr west).
it was the central station of old hiyoshi-cho.
some limited express trains stop at hiyoshi station in the morning and evening for commuters.
station layout
hiyoshi station is an aboveground station with a single platform serving two tracks that run in opposite directions,allowing trains to pass each other.
the station building is shared with the nantan city hiyoshi-cho exchange center and can be accessed from the level crossing on the fukuchiyama side of the platform.
management of the station has been semi-subcontracted to kiosk since before the station moved into the current building.
hiyoshi station has a single track crossing loop configuration on the fukuchiyama side of platform 1,where platform 1 is used mainly for the limited express trains that pass through the station and platform 2 is used mainly for trains that stop at the station.
trains stop at platform 1 only when two local trains pass or when inbound limited express trains stop at the station.
passenger volume
the number of passengers per day was about 375 people in fiscal year 2006.
(adapted from the kyoto prefecture statistical report)
station surroundings
nantan city office,hiyoshi branch
tonoda elementary school,nantan city
tonoda junior high school,nantan city
hiyoshi post office
kyoto prefectural road no.50,kyoto hiyoshi miyama route
history
august 25,1910:tonoda station opened,operated by japan national railways(jnr).
start of passenger and freight services.
january 21,1984:freight service discontinued.
april 1,1987:station taken over jr west following division and privatization of jnr.
march 16,1996:tonoda station renamed hiyoshi station.
neighboring stations
*the limited expresses 'tanba,' 'hashidate,' and 'maizuru' ('tanba' is an inbound train and 'hashidate' is an outbound train)occasionally stop at hiyoshi station;refer to the individual descriptions of these trains for the stations they stop at.
west japan railway company(jr west)
sanin main line
funaoka station(kyoto prefecture)-hiyoshi station-shinkyudaigakumae station
note:
there was a plan to construct the kotsuru line,running from hiyoshi station to obama station in obama city,fukui prefecture.
