arashiyama station(hankyu railway)
arashiyama station,located at 7 arashiyama higashi ichikawa-cho,nishikyo ward,kyoto city,is the terminal of hankyu arashiyama line,which is operated by hankyu railway.
it's the gateway from osaka and kobe to arashiyama,one of the representative tourist spots of kyoto.
station layout
formerly,the station had six toothed platforms serving five tracks,but today it has three platforms with two tracks,and trees have been planted on the platforms that are no longer in use.
usually,just the central platform is used,but in the holiday season the platforms at the outer sides are used for passengers leaving the trains.
from this platform,which is reserved for getting off trains,one reaches the ticket gate(the right-hand side in the above photograph)by an upward slope and descending stairs,but there is no passage to the ticket gate used all year round(center in the above picture).
also,track no.1 is sometimes used for exhibitions,etc.
(sagano),' written in brackets,is shown under 'arashiyama' on the station sign.
also,on the signs indicating the direction of the trains, 'kyoto(kawaramachi)' is written,but this 'kyoto' doesn't refer to kyoto station or kyoto city but to rakuchu,i.e.,the inner area of the former heian-kyo(capital of japan in the heian period).
the old station building is still in good shape even today.
on saturdays and holidays,track no.1 is used,and on weekdays track no.2 is used.
events take place on railway line no.1.
passenger use
the number of passengers per day in fiscal year 2003 was approximately 3,395(according to the kyoto prefecture statistics report).
station surroundings
the surrounding area is a residential district.
the touristic attractions of arashiyama are in the northwestern direction from the station.
approximately 400 m to togetsu-kyo bridge
it's a ten-minute walk to arashiyama station(keifuku electric railroad co.,ltd.),across togetsu-kyo bridge.
walking even farther north,one reaches the saga-arashiyama station of the west japan railway company and the saga torokko station of the sagano scenic railway(however,it takes about thirty minutes to walk,so one has to be careful when using these stations to change trains).
mini-stop
the kyoto arashiyama post office
arashiyama higashi elementary school,kyoto city
the katsura-gawa river(yodo-gawa river system)
utano arashiyama yamada line of the kyoto prefectural route 29
bus stop
in front of arashiyama station(hankyu railway)
kyoto city bus
route 28:bound for kyoto station via shijo omiya
route 28:bound for daikaku-ji temple
kyoto bus co.,ltd.
history
originally,in anticipation of large numbers of arashiyama sightseers,the station was built as a huge terminal station with six platforms with five tracks.
however,the passenger traffic was less than expected,so the size was reduced to three platforms with two tracks.
today one can still see the remains of the platforms on the eastern side.
november 9,1928:the station went into operation concurrently with the shinkeihan railway arashiyama line.
september 15,1930:it became a station of keihan electric railway as a result of amalgamation.
october 1,1943:it became a station of keihanshin express railway(the current hankyu railway)as a result of amalgamation between keihan electric railway and hanshin electric express railway.
january 9,1944:all the railway lines became single due to the need to supply materials.
others
the station was chosen as part of the second selection of 100 prominent stations in the kinki region.
adjacent stations
hankyu railway
arashiyama line
matsuo station(kyoto prefecture)-arashiyama station(hankyu railway)
