shinden station(kyoto prefecture)
shinden station,located in higashi-ura,hirono-cho of uji city,kyoto prefecture,is a stop on the nara line of west japan railway company(jr west).
station layout
it is an above-ground station having two platforms opposite each other and two tracks,double-tracked on the kyoto side and single-tracked on the joyo side,at which trains can pass each other or pass others.
the station building side platform is for platform 1(inbound)and the opposite platform for platform 2(outbound).
the two platforms are connected by an open passenger overpass.
the small wooden structure is still being used to house the station administrative offices,while the two large trees(a magnolia kobus and a gingko)standing in front are truly magnificent and have been included among the 100 famous trees of uji city.
station operations are commissioned to jr west japan transportation service co.,ltd.
icoca and j-thru cards can be used.
east japan railway company(jr east)suica cards subject to mutual use with icoca cards,surutto kansai association pitapa cards and central japan railway company(jr tokai)toica cards also can be used.
usage status
the number of passengers boarding at this station came to approximately 2,734 per day in fiscal year 2006.
(source:kyoto prefecture statistical report)
station surroundings
located near the center of the former kuse-gun in the southwestern part of uji city,with joyo city and kumiyama-cho of kuse-gun also at walking distance,jr west nara line and kintetsu kyoto line tracks come close together and then sharply separate in an x configuration near okubo station;a network of routed buses is available at the bus terminal,a number of rental car dealers have established offices nearby and,as the junction of the southern regions of kyoto prefecture(population approximately 600,000)and an economic center,further improvements and development of the neighborhood can be anticipated in the days to come.
okubo station(kyoto prefecture)(kintetsu kyoto line)--some five minutes on foot to the west.
japan ground self-defense force okubo base
enzoin temple
shinden post office
kyoto prefectural jonan senior high school
history
january 25,1896:the station was inaugurated simultaneously with the nara line's extension from momoyama station to tamamizu station.
february 7,1905:the station became a kansai railway company station due to amalgamation.
october 1,1907:kansai railway company was nationalized under the railway nationalization act.
it became japan national railways' shinden station.
april 1,1987:the station became a jr west station due to the split privatization of japan national railways.
march 3,2001:the section between uji station(jr west)and shinden station became double-tracked.
simultaneously,it was upgraded to a rapid train stopping station to coincide with the timetable revision(but miyakoji rapid service does not stop).
neighboring stations
west japan railway company(jr west)
■nara line
■miyakoji rapid service
nonstop
■rapid service/■regional rapid service/■local
jr ogura station-shinden station-joyo station
