tamamizu station
tamamizu station,located in ide-cho,tsuzuki-gun of kyoto prefecture,is a stop on the nara line of the west japan railway company(jr west).
station layout
it is an above-ground station with two platforms and double tracks at which trains can pass each other or pass others.
the platform nearer the station building is platform 1,and the one opposite crossing a passengers' overpass is platform 2.
because the inbound platform(platform 1)is the thoroughfare,only outbound trains that pass each other or pass others at this station come in on platform 2(the number of outbound trains departing from/arriving at platform 1 and 2 per fiscal year 2006 timetable was the same).
(moreover,because all trains stop at this station,inbound trains,in principle,don't come in on platform 2.)
the operations of the station are commissioned to jr west japan transportation service co.,ltd.,but a multi access seat reservation system(mars)terminal is not installed.
automated ticket gates are of the simplified type.
both the icoca and j-thru cards can be used as well as the pitapa(surutto kansai association)cards,which are subject to mutual use with icoca cards.
however,the ticket gates are of the simplified type and can't process more than one j-thru card.
a monument(erected in 1984)commemorating japan national railways electrifying 9,000 km of its railway system stands within the station premises.
usage status
the number of passengers boarding at this station came to approximately 1,101 per day in fiscal year 2006.
(source:kyoto prefecture statistical report)
station surroundings
ide town hall
ide municipal ide elementary school
ide municipal izumigaoka junior high school
ide post office
tama-gawa river
history
january 25,1896:the station was inaugurated as the terminal station of the nara line when it was extended from momoyama station to this station.
march 13,1896:the nara line was further extended from this station to kizu station.
it became an intermediate station.
february 7,1905:the station became a kansai railway company station as a result of amalgamation.
october 1,1907:kansai railway company was nationalized under the railway nationalization act.
april 1,1987:the station became a jr west station due to the split privatization of japan national railways.
march 15,2003:the station was upgraded to a rapid train stopping station pursuant to the timetable revision.
neighboring stations
west japan railway company(jr west)
■nara line
■miyakoji rapid service/■rapid service
joyo station-tamamizu station-kizu station(kyoto prefecture)
■regional rapid service/■local
yamashiro-taga station-tamamizu station-tanakura station
