randen-saga station
randen-saga station,located in saga-tenryuji-imahori-cho,ukyo ward,kyoto city,is a railway facility of the arashiyama main line,which is operated by keifuku electric railroad co.,ltd.
its station number is a13.
prior to march 18,2007,it was called sagaekimae station.
the old station name derived from saga station(operated by then kyoto railway,later japanese national railways and the current west japan railway company),which came into operation in 1897 and is located nearby,but even after saga station was renamed saga-arashiyama station in 1994,the old name used by jr west remained as a portion of the old name of this station.
although personnel aren't allocated to this station,the sale of coupon tickets and 'one-day open tickets for arashiyama' is consigned to a shop located in front of the station,since the station is near to jr saga-arashiyama station and relatively large numbers of tourists use this station.
this is the only case in which the sale of 'one-day open tickets for arashiyama' is consigned to a shop in front of a station.
however,the shop concerned is normally closed on sundays,although there are many tourists,so they can't purchase 'one-day open tickets for arashiyama' on sundays.
available railway lines
keifuku electric railroad co.,ltd.
arashiyama main line,keifuku electric railroad co.,ltd.
station layout
this station is at ground level and has a pair of separate platforms serving two tracks.
station surroundings
saga-arashiyama station,on the sanin main line(sagano line),is operated by the west japan railway company(jr west).
saga torokko station,on the sagano sight-seeing tram line,is operated by the sagano scenic railway.
saga-no-higashi-no-misasagi(the imperial mausoleum of the emperor chokei)is located just south of the station.
history
march 25,1910:the facility went into operation as saga-teishajomae station of the arashiyama electric tramway.
april 2,1918:the station became a facility of kyoto dento,an electric power company,due to the company's merger.
1927:it was renamed as sagaekimae station.
march 2,1942:the station became a facility of keifuku electric railroad co.,ltd.,based on the succession of the line.
march 19,2007:it was renamed as randen-saga station.
adjacent stations
keifuku electric railroad co.,ltd.
arashiyama main line
rokuoin station(a12)-randen-saga station(a13)-arashiyama station(keifuku electric railroad co.,ltd.)(a14)
