keage station
located in higashiyama ward,kyoto city,keage station is a stop on the kyoto municipal subway tozai line.
the station number is t09.
station layout
like other stations on the tozai line,keage station has a double track,an island platform and security doors between the platform and tracks.
every station of the tozai line has its own color,and keage station's is violet.
keage station's platform is located on sub-level four.
the station is equipped with two elevators that were manufactured by mitsubishi electric corporation,and the elevator that links the platform(sub-level four)with the concourse(sub-level one)can load and transport a stretcher,but it doesn't stop at the two floors in between.
there are buttons for the two floors but they are unmarked and when pushed,an announcement states that the elevator doesn't stop at those floors.
the station has two exits to street level.
the area around the station is designated a scenic zone and the entrances have a finish of brick-style tiles.
passenger use
the station is used as a starting point to go to sightseeing spots in the higashiyama mountain range,including the area around okazaki park.
with higashiyama high school nearby,many students use the station.
around 8 a.m.,almost eighty percent of the passengers are students of higashiyama high and junior high school.
surroundings
the station is located on the eastern edge of kyoto basin,at the foot of the higashiyama mountain range.
to the northwest is the downtown area but to the southeast,there is only the tokaido road(sanjo-dori street),heading over the mountains.
the westin miyako kyoto hotel
nanzen-ji temple
lake biwa canal
the lake biwa canal museum of kyoto
canal inclined plane
"nejiri-manpo" (a peculiar tunnel made up of bricks)
the keage hydroelectric power plant(japan's first hydroelectric plant)
the keage purification plant
the kujoyama purification plant
zenrin-ji temple,or eikando(kyoto city)
murinan villa and gardens
higashiyama high school
kyoto international community house
kyoto city zoo,etc.:the zoo is near to higashiyama station(kyoto prefecture),but it is also accessible from keage station.
himukai-daijingu shrine
history
this is the second keage station to be run by kyoto municipal transportation bureau,the first one being a tram stop on the defunct keage tram line.
there was also another keage station,operated by the keihan keishin line,which was located to the west of the present keage station,across the intersection.
october 12,1997:establishment of keage station and daigo station to nijo station section of tozai line.
april 1,2007:introduction of pitapa card ticketing and electronic money system.
note
the facilities of keage station were built by kyoto kosoku railway co.,ltd.,a joint public-private venture.
(for details,please refer to the article on the history of the kyoto municipal subway tozai line)
adjacent stations
kyoto municipal subway
tozai line
misasagi station(t08)-keage station(t09)-higashiyama station(kyoto prefecture)(t10)
