sumizome station
sumizome station,located in fukakusa-kitashin-machi,fushimi ward,kyoto city,kyoto prefecture,is a stop on the keihan main line,which is operated by keihan electric railway.
station layout
it is located on the ground level,with two parallel platforms serving two tracks between them.
a ticket gate is provided independently for each of the inbound and outbound trains,but one cannot move between the platforms within the ticket gates.
both of the ticket gates are located on the tambabashi side of the platforms.
since around the mid-1980s,the pillars of the platforms have been painted gray,corresponding to the name of the station.
a railroad crossing within the premises existed until around the mid-1990s,but eventually it was removed.
platforms
*each platform has a length sufficient to accommodate a seven-car train.
no track number is displayed.
station surroundings
jr fujinomori station,a station on the nara line of west japan railway company(jr west),is located approximately 600 meters east of this station.
fushimi station(kyoto prefecture),a station on the kintetsu kyoto line,is located approximately 700 meters southwest of this station.
kyoto university of education
senior high school attached to kyoto university of education
kyoto municipal fujinomori elementary school
the fushimi sumizome post office
national route 24
saifuku-ji temple
bokusen-ji temple
fujinomori-jinja shrine
the sumizome power plant(refer to the lake biwa canal)
bus stops
no route bus service is available at keihan sumizome station.
the bus stop nearest to the station:the sumizome bus stop or the shitamachi bus stop for buses of the kyoto municipal transportation bureau
because there are many one-way streets around the station,a bus stop site for a route bus is provided,depending on the bus's direction of travel.
the sumizome bus stop
this bus stop is just a three-minute walk south of sumizome station.
kyoto city buses
route south 8:bound for takeda-eki-higashiguchi(east entrance to takeda station)(kyoto prefecture)(bus operation entrusted to keihan bus)
the shitamachi bus stop
this bus stop is a five-minute walk west from sumizome station.
kyoto city buses
route south 8:bound for yokooji-shako depot(bus operation entrusted to keihan bus)
small-size buses are used on the route throughout the day.
history
april 15,1910:the station became operational.
october 1,1943:the companies concerned merged,and this station became a facility of keihanshin express electric railway(hankyu corporation).
december 1,1949:due to a separation of the company,this station became a facility of keihan electric railway.
september 1,1972:the use of the ticket gate for the platform for outbound trains started.
march 1,1985:a lavatory was installed on the platform for the trains bound for kyoto,and the roofs of the platforms were extended by ten meters.
october 3,1995:the new station house came into use.
adjacent stations
keihan electric railway
keihan main line
k-limited express/limited express/express
nonstop
sub-express/local
tambabashi station-sumizome station-fujinomori station
