uzumasa-tenjingawa station
uzumasa-tenjingawa station,located in the ukyo ward of kyoto city,kyoto prefecture,is the last stop on the tozai line of the kyoto municipal subway and the first subway station built in ukyo ward.
the station lies under the tenjingawa-oike crossing at oike-dori street and tenjingawa-dori street(national route 162).
the number given to the station is t17.
the color given to the station is lemon.
station name
many of the station names in the central part of kyoto city are given under the following system:give 'a name of a street running north-south' to a station on the line running east-west that crosses the street or give 'a name of a street running east-west' to a station on the line running north-south(e.g.,kyoto municipal subway karasuma line)that crosses the street;accordingly,the station was temporarily named after 'tenjingawa-dori' (which is the name of a street running near the station)before the station name 'uzumasa-tenjingawa' was finally selected by taking into account a request by local people.
among the public opinions for a station name gathered in february 2007, 'tenjingawa' was selected as number one,accounting for 51%and 'uzumasa' as number two,accounting for 12%;consequently,the two were combined for the station name.
station layout
there is a concourse on the first basement level and an island platform with platform doors serving two tracks on the third basement level.
unlike other stations,trains bound for hamaotsu arrive at the station to the west of the platform.
a bus locator system is installed in front of a ticket gate to provide real-time information on the locations of buses.
when the station opened in january 2008,part of the stairs connecting the ground and the concourse level was not placed in service,an entrance was blocked and some above-ground bus terminals were incomplete,so route buses stopped at temporary bus stops installed on either sanjo-dori street or tenjingawa-dori street.
a portion of the above-ground bus terminal was put into service in late march.
a bank automated teller machine will be installed on the concourse level.
trains bound for rokujizo are set to arrive at one side of the platform and trains bound for hamaotsu arrive at the other side during the day,but it depends on the time zone at which side of the platform the respective trains arrive.
station surroundings
kyoto(uzumasa)plant dai nippon printing co.,ltd.
kyoto powertrain plant,mitsubishi motors corporation
kyoto university of foreign studies,kyoto junior college of foreign languages
kyoto city yamanouchi purification plant
tenjin-gawa river(kyoto city)
randen-tenjingawa station on the arashiyama main line of the keifuku electric railroad
as the station opened,the randen-tenjingawa station opened between kaikonoyashiro and yamanouchi stations(kyoto prefecture)on the arashiyama line of the keifuku electric railroad on march 28,2008;sansa ukyo was built on the aboveground of the station as a new base of ukyo ward,into which the kyoto municipal transportation bureau government office,ukyo ward office,a welfare office and a healthcare center were moved.
the underground bicycle parking area was placed in service on march 1,2008.
examples of large-scale facilities built above subway stations as urban redevelopment projects in kyoto city include kitaoji station(kitaoji vivre above-ground and the kitaoji bus terminal underground),yamashina station(racto a,b,c,a hotel,daimaru yamashina,racto-kenko-bunkakan(racto sports plaza),and yamashina shakai-kyoiku-sogo center(asny yamashina)above-ground),and daigo station(kyoto prefecture)(al plaza,and daigo-chuo library,kyoto city above-ground).
likewise,uzumasa-tenjingawa station is also the example of the large-scale development,and public facilities reside in the building above the station.
as the station opened,the kyoto city bus added two bus routes(route no.70 between uzumasa-tenjingawa station and katsura station;rapid route no.8 between uzumasa-tenjingawa station and yamagoe-nakacho)and changed or extended the existing six routes to go through the station(route nos.8,11,27,75,80 and 84).
route bus
kyoto city bus(uzumasa-tenjingawa-ekimae,kaikonoyashiro)
route no.8:for shijo-karasuma(via kyoto gaikokugodaigaku-mae(kyoto university of foreign studies))/takao(via fukuoji)
rapid route no.8:for yamagoe-nakacho(via fukuoji,yamagoe-onsui pool mae)
route no.11:for sanjo-keihan-mae(via nishioji-sanjo,shijo-kawaramachi)/yamagoe-nakacho(via arashiyama)
route no.27:for kyoto gaidai-mae(kyoto university of foreign studies)/kokajoshi-gakuen-mae(koka women's educational institution)
route no.70:for katsura-eki higashi-guchi(katsura station east exit)(via uzumasa-higashiguchi(uzumasa east exit),kaminobashi)
route no.75:for kyoto-ekimae(kyoto station)(via nishioji-gojo)/yamagoe-nakacho(via uzumasa-eigamura-michi)
route no.80:for shijo-kawaramachi(via nishioji-gojo,gojozaka)
route no.84:for kyotoeki-hachijoguchi(kyoto station hachijo exit)(via nishikyogoku station,jujo-ekimae(kyoto municipal subway))
kyoto bus
route no.71:for kyoto-ekimae(kyoto station)(via shijo-omiya)/daikaku-ji temple(via uzumasa-koryuji-mae,arashiyama)
route no.72:for kyoto-ekimae(kyoto station)(via shijo-omiya)/kiyotaki(via uzumasa-koryuji-mae,arashiyama)
route no.73:for kyoto-ekimae(kyoto station)(via shijo-omiya)/koke-dera temple,suzumushi-dera temple(via uzumasa-koryuji-mae,arashiyama)
history
january 16,2008:the station opened as the last stop when the tozai line was extended from nijo station to uzumasa-tenjingawa station.
neighboring stations
kyoto municipal subway
■tozai line
nishioji-oike station(t16)-uzumasa-tenjingawa station(t17)
