higashino station(kyoto prefecture)
higashino station,located in yamashina ward,kyoto city,is a railroad facility on the kyoto municipal subway tozai line.
its station number is t06.
station layout
the platform,which is located on the third basement level,is a double-track island platform(one platform for two lines)with safety barriers,similar to platforms of other stations on the tozai line.
each station on the tozai line is assigned a unique station color,and the color of higashino station is light purple.
the station's elevators were made by mitsubishi;however,for those at entrances 3 to 6,managed by the kyoto national highway office,were made by daiko.
station surroundings
the yamashina higashino intersection,one of the major intersections in the area,is located near the station.
national route 1(gojo-dori street)
kyoto outer loop expressway
national route 1 and the kyoto outer loop expressway cross each other at the yamashina higashino intersection.
tokaido shinkansen(bullet train)line
remains of yamashina hongan-ji temple
tomb of rennyo shonin
seiyu yamashina store
kato yamashina hospital
route bus services
keihan bus(choose one of the following stops,depending on the destination.)
higashino katasagaricho
kokudo higashino
higashino
history
the station,located beneath the intersection of national route 1 and the outer loop expressway,was built to provide access to bus transportation.
july 31,1995:construction started.
july 31,1997:the construction process was completed.
because the construction work required excavation beneath the tokaido shinkansen line,the station was completed last among all the stations on the tozai line that were built by the kyoto municipal transportation bureau.
after the opening of the station,the higashino intersection underground road was developed by the ministry of land,infrastructure,transport and tourism.
october 12,1997:the station was opened and commensurate with the launch of service between daigo station and nijo station on the tozai line.
april 1,2007:pitapa cards came into use.
adjacent stations
kyoto municipal subway
tozai line
nagitsuji station(t05)-higashino station(t06)-yamashina station(t07)
