terada station(kyoto prefecture)
located in joyo city of kyoto prefecture,terada station is a stop on the kyoto line of the kintetsu corporation.
station layout
the station has two platforms opposite each other and two tracks in between.
the ticket gates and concourse are located underground,and the platforms are above ground.
each platform has a length sufficient to accommodate six cars.
the station entrances are located on both sides of the platforms nearer to kyoto.
the kiosk stall,which had been doing business on the kyoto-bound platform,closed in october 2007.
the automated ticket gates were manufactured by toshiba.
the red-colored,automated ticket gates(eg-2000)can process two tickets together when exiting,and they're compatible with the pitapa and icoca cards.
occasional express-train stops
express trains occasionally stop at this station when events are held at the nearby bunka parc joyo(joyo cultural center).
usage status
since the joyo station on jr west's nara line,which is close to this station,made extensive improvements to its facilities,passengers seem to have drifted to jr west.
incidentally,all trains stop at the jr joyo station,but trains other than local trains make practically no stops at this terada station(semi-express trains make stops at the same stations as local trains in this zone).
a survey conducted on november 8,2005 revealed that 9,910 passengers got on and off at this station that day.
it ranked seventy-fifth among all stations(323 stations open on that day)subject to the survey.
it ranked thirteenth among stations on the kyoto line(a total of 26,including yamato-saidaiji station).
it ranked eleventh among 23 kintetsu stations located in kyoto prefecture.
station surroundings
joyo city library
joyo station(jr west nara line):approximately 15 minutes eastward on foot
joyo municipal terada-nishi elementary school
joyo municipal nishi-joyo junior high school
joyo terada post office
bunka parc joyo(joyo cultural center)
fujishobo books,terada branch
okunishi furniture
algo
chateraise co.,ltd.
joyo exit(joyo interchange)
bus routes
joyo sansan bus
history
november 3,1928:the station was inaugurated when the section between momoyama goryo-mae station and saidaiji station(now yamato-saidaiji station)on the nara electric railway commenced operations.
october 1,1963:the station became a kintetsu corporation station as a result of amalgamation.
april 1,2007:the use of pitapa cards commenced.
neighboring stations
kintetsu corporation
kyoto line
■express
nonstop(when temporary stopping,okubo station(kyoto prefecture)-terada station-shin-tanabe station)
■semi express/■local
kutsukawa station-terada station-tonosho station
