kami-kawaguchi station
kami-kawaguchi station,located at 12-2 koaza ishigori,kamioda,oaza musochi,fukuchiyama city,kyoto prefecture,is a stop on the sanin main line,which is operated by the west japan railway company(jr west).
station layout
it's an aboveground station with a single platform serving a track as well as an island platform serving two tracks,being capable of handling traffic in both directions.
a station building exists but is unmanned.
the station building stands on platform 1 side,which is a single platform,and is connected by a footbridge to platform 2 and 3 which is an island platform.
within the station building there is an automatic ticket vending machine that's similar to a vending machine that prints meal coupons;consequently,the tickets produced aren't compatible with the automatic ticket checker at ticket gates.
there is a vault toilet used by both men and women within the ticket gate.
as of october 2007,local trains did not have to wait for limited express trains at this station;however,during daytime hours local outbound trains stopped at platform 3 twice daily.
furthermore,it's possible for trains headed to kyoto to stop at platform 3,but that isn't the current arrangement.
station surroundings
the tatsuhara post office(with postal savings bank atm facility)
lawson fukuchiyama nobana store
kyoto hokuto shinkin bank atm(saso branch,lawson fukuchiyama nobana store agency)
national route 9
mt.himegami
choan-ji temple
bus
keihan kyoto kotsu(maizuru)/yakuno route
name of bus stop: 'nobana'/'tatsuhara'
bound for the front of shimo-yakuno station
bound for the front of fukuchiyama station via maki and nishi-honmachi/maki
passenger use
the number of daily passengers was about 93 in fiscal year 2006.
(according to the kyoto prefecture statistics report)
history
october 25,1911:it opened as a facility of japanese national railways concurrently with the opening of the fukuchiyama-wadayama section.
passenger and freight services were started.
march 1,1963:freight service was terminated.
april 1,1987:the station became a jr west facility as a result of the split and privatization of the japan national railways.
adjacent stations
west japan railway company(jr west)
sanin main line
fukuchiyama station-kami-kawaguchi station-shimo-yakuno station
