nagitsuji station
nagitsuji station,located in nagitsuji kusakaido-cho of the yamashina ward,kyoto city,is a railroad facility on the kyoto municipal subway tozai line.
its station number is t05.
station layout
the platform,located on the second basement level,is a double-track island platform(one platform for two lines)surrounded by safety barriers like the platforms of other tozai line stations.
each tozai line station is assigned a unique station color,and the color for nagitsuji station is bright pink.
the station's elevators are hydraulic units manufactured by mitsubishi.
station surroundings
yamashina ward office(yamashina ward government building)
kyoto prison
kanshu elementary school,kyoto city
sakanoue no tamuramaro's grave
hikari supermarket yamashina store
kyoto outer loop expressway
nagitsuji hospital
tobu culture hall
route bus services
keihan bus
history
nagitsuji station was built for nagitsuji,which performs an important role in the yamashina ward as an area where administrative,cultural and commercial facilities are concentrated.
july 31,1995:the construction of the station commenced.
may 30,1997:the process was completed.
october 12,1997:the station was opened and commensurate with the launch of service between daigo station and nijo station on the tozai line.
april 1,2007:pitapa cards came into use.
origin of the station's name
it is believed that the place name,nagitsuji,is derived from a large nagi(podcarpus nagi)tree that existed at the place.
as with irinaka station,a nagoya city subway tsurumai line facility whose name contains a chinese character not included among the characters designated for common use in japan,the name of nagitsuji station is difficult to read for many people if written in chinese characters,and for this reason it had been proposed to write the station name in hiragana;ultimately,however,it was decided to use chinese characters for the station name.
this station is therefore counted among the subway stations whose names are the most difficult to read,along with stations such as kire-uriwari station,which is on the osaka municipal subway tanimachi line.
adjacent stations
kyoto municipal subway
tozai line
ono station(kyoto prefecture)(t04)-nagitsuji station(t05)-higashino station(kyoto prefecture)(t06)
