tanbabashi station
tanbabashi station,located in momoyama tsutsui iga nishi-machi,fushimi ward,kyoto city,kyoto prefecture,is a stop on the keihan main line of the keihan electric railway.
this section describes the period during which this station was shared by nara electric railway(and kintetsu railways).
station layout
this station has two island-type platforms and four tracks(one platform serving two tracks),and is equipped with passing facilities.
the north exit is used as the underground station house.
the south exit is used as an elevated station house,and the escalators and elevators are provided between the platforms and the elevated station house;additionally,there is an elevator at the south exit.
this station is connected to kintetsu-tanbabashi station of the kintetsu kyoto line by a walk-through from the south exit,and it is used for transfers.
the station house of the north exit used to be at ground level,and the station house and platforms were connected by the railroad crossing in the station yard.
platforms
the branching curve to the refuge track is sharp,and trains which wait for higher priority trains in the refuge track start with a loud squeaking noise.
higher and lower priority trains are coupled together depending on the time and day,as follows:during the day,limited expresses and local trains(occasionally semi-expresses)are coupled together;in the morning and evening on weekends and holidays,limited expresses/expresses and local trains are coupled together;in the late evening and at night on weekdays,k-limited expresses and expresses bound for osaka are coupled together,while k-limited expresses/expresses and local trains bound for demachiyanagi are coupled together.
a departure melody has been introduced.
the automatic ticket gates were manufactured by toshiba.
pitapa/icoca cards are accepted.
station surroundings
fushimi momoyama-jo castle
mausoleum of emperor kanmu
national route 24
momoyama elementary school attached to the kyoto university of education
momoyama elementary school attached to the kyoto university of education
kyoto prefectural momoyama senior high school
the fushimi kyomachi-kita post office
kyoto city kuretake cultural center
bus stop
no bus route stops at keihan-tanbabashi station.
nearest bus stop:tanbabashi station of the kyoto municipal transportation bureau
tanbabashi
the bus stop,located along national route 24,is a five-minute walk from the railroad station.
kyoto city bus
south 8 route:bound for takeda station(kyoto prefecture)east exit(higashiguchi)(via fujimori-jinja shrine)/yokooji-shako depot
history
the kintetsu kyoto line once used both the kintetsu and keihan lines,and they would go through mutually.
however,before raising the line voltage to 1500v(upon compliance in 1969)and the settlement of ats(automatic train stop system)on the keihan main line(with compliance from 1967 sequentially),the mutual operation was ceased in 1968 because the crossing at grade in the station yard would hinder an increase in the number of trains.
therefore,the station of the kintetsu kyoto line became independent as kintetsu-tanbabashi station and the connecting line to the kintetsu line was removed(traces of mutual operation can be seen in the bicycle parking area at the north side of the station and at the branch track,which is in the south side of the station).
for a period of approximately ten years after the end of mutual operation,both stations retained guide apparatus for each other.
june 20,1910:the station opened,and was then called momoyama station.
july 29,1913:it was renamed tanbabashi station.
october 1,1943:the station became part of the keihanshin express railway(presently the hankyu railway)due to the amalgamation that took place.
december 21,1945:mutual operation started as a shared station with nara electric railway(currently the kintetsu kyoto line).
1946:when the express train service was revived,the station was used for express train stops in place of fushimi-momoyama station.
december 1,1949:the station became part of the keihan electric railway due to the separation of companies that occurred.
march 29,1967:the elevated station house at the south exit and the walk-through between the south exit and kintetsu-tanbabashi station opened.
december 20,1968:mutual operation with the kintetsu kyoto line ceased.
march 22,1972:the exit toward the west was added at the south exit station house.
march 10,1987:the railroad crossing in the station yard was abandoned,and the platforms were extended for accepting eight-car trains;additionally,the ticket gate in the north exit was moved underground.
august 1,1988:the 'keihan tanbabashi east building' opened.
september 9,1988:the 'keihan tanbabashi west building' opened.
july 1,1991:each platform had a waiting room equipped with an air conditioner.
november 10,1995:the installation of two walk-through type elevators was completed at the south exit.
december 21,1996:a multipurpose restroom for the physically challenged was set up in the elevated station house of the south exit.
january 19,1997:the station office was moved to the elevated station house.
january 21,1997:the installation of four up/down escalators between the elevated station house and the platforms was completed.
march 31,1997:the installation of two elevators connecting the station house and platforms was completed.
september 1997:the work for the expansion of the elevated station house was completed.
july 15,1998:an atm machine was installed in the station yard.
july 1,2000:the station became a stop for limited express trains throughout the day.
*subsequently,kintetsu-tanbabashi station also became a stop for limited express trains throughout the day.
june 30,2004:a bank of kyoto atm machine was installed in the station yard.
july 9,2007:the ticket office for commuter tickets was closed.
adjacent stations
keihan electric railway
keihan main line
k-limited express/limited express
chushojima station-tanbabashi station-shichijo station
express
chushojima station-tanbabashi station-fushimi-inari station
semi-express/local
fushimi-momoyama station-tanbabashi station-sumizome station
