hanazono station(kyoto prefecture)
hanazono station,located in hanazono teranouchi-cho,ukyo ward,kyoto city,kyoto prefecture,is a stop on the sanin main line(sagano line),which is operated by the west japan railway company(jr west).
the cable address of the station name is 'osahaso.'
icoca and j-through card,both of which are ic cards,are available for railway fare payment at this station;for information regarding the compatible ic card with icoca,please refer to the article about icoca.
station layout
hanazono station is an elevated station having one island platform with tracks;being equipped with a double track in the direction of kyoto station and a single track in the direction of sonobe station,the facilities of the station enable two trains to pass each other.
hanazono station has the same characteristic shed as that of nijo station,because these two stations were converted into elevated stations at nearly the same time.
the ticket gate is located on the ground level,and the platform is located on the second floor.
additionally,the station's operation is consigned to jr west kotsu service,and the station is unmanned early in the morning and late at night.
station surroundings
marutamachi-dori street runs from the west to the east on the north side of hanazono station.
the neighborhood is mainly a residential area.
on the north side of the station there are many places filled with greenery,such as hokongo-in temple(which is related to the origin of the place name "hanazono"),myoshin-ji temple and the historic site narabigaoka hill.
hanazono station is located at a distance,but it's the nearest jr station to ninna-ji temple.
uzumasa tenjingawa station,on the kyoto municipal subway tozai line,is about 800 meters to the southwest of hanazono station.
randen-tenjingawa station,on the arashiyama main line operated by keifuku electric railroad co.,ltd.(randen),is about 1,000 meters southwest of hanazono station.
facilities around the station
kyoto municipal hanazono elementary school
kyoto municipal yasui elementary school
private hanazono junior and senior high school
ukyo fureai bunka kaikan(ukyo fureai culture hall)
kyoto city waterworks bureau,yamanouchi purification plant
kyoto narabigaoka hospital
izumiya hospital
toei movie land(kyoto uzumasa eigamura):this is located about a kilometer west of hanazono station.
hanazono station is more convenient than uzumasa station for those who want to go to toei movie land when the back door of movie land is closed,because the entrance to the entertainment facility is nearer to hanazono station than to uzumasa station and consequently the entrance is easier to find when one goes from hanazono station than from uzumasa station.
life corporation uzumasa branch
kyoto family
bus services
the nearest bus stop to hanazono station is hanazonoeki-mae(front of hanazono station).
kyoto city bus and kyoto bus co.,ltd.,operate the following routes:
route 91:for shijo karasuma(via saiin station)/daikaku-ji temple(kyoto city)(via toei movie land)
route 93:for kinrin shako-depot(via marutamachi-dori street)/saga arashiyama(kyoto city)
passenger use
the average daily number of passengers at this station in fiscal year 2006 was 4,090.
(according to the kyoto prefecture statistics report)
history
january 1,1898:hanazono station opened as a stop of kyoto electric railway.
and it began handling passengers and freight.
august 1,1907:kyoto electric railway was nationalized.
march 10,1960:hanazono station ended handling freight.
april 1,1987:hanazono station became a stop of jr west because of the division and privatization of jnr.
march 19,1996:hanazono station became an elevated station.
adjacent stations
west japan railway company(jr west)
sagano line(sanin main line)
rapid
nonstop
local
emmachi station-hanazono station-uzumasa station
