amanohashidate station
amanohashidate station,located in aza-monju of miyazu city,kyoto prefecture,is a stop on the miyazu line of the kitakinki tango railway.
counted as having one of the three most famous panoramas in japan and a tourist site renowned throughout the country,it's the gateway railway station to amanohashidate.
amanohashidate station was also chosen as one of the 100 most attractive stations in the kinki region at the first of such selections in 2000.
station layout
it is an aboveground station with a single one-sided platform(track on one side only),an island-type platform between tracks and two storage tracks.
the station is located in the northern part of tango peninsula;its building simulates a traditional boathouse of nearby ine-cho and was awarded the association of railway architects prize in 1991.
a tourist information center is located within the station premises.
again,in a manner uncommon for a railway station operated by joint private-public management,it's significant in that it has a jr ticket office(midori-no-madoguchi).
however,facilities of this station are totally non-barrier-free.
usage status
the number of passengers boarding at this station came to approximately 496 per day in fiscal year 2006.
(source:kyoto prefecture statistical report)
this is a station where large numbers of tourists disembark throughout the year,but when the summer sea bathing season gets underway,bathers gather in flocks;accordingly,additional station staff are assigned to cope with the congestion.
station surroundings
amanohashidate(within a short walking distance from this station)
amanohashidate hot spring 'chieno-yu' (in front of this station)
amanohashidate swimming beach
amanohashidate park(within walking distance from this station)
ama no hashidate view land
chion-ji temple(miyazu city)
hashidate hotel
genmyoan inn(the imperial family stayed at this japanese-style inn)
bus service
tango kairiku kotsu co.,ltd.
kaya fellow line
taxi service
kyoto taxi co.,ltd.miyazu office
nihon kotsu co.,ltd.(fukuchiyama city)
history
july 31,1925:the station was inaugurated simultaneously with japan national railways commencement of operation between the miyazu and tango-yamada(now nodagawa)section on the mineyama line.
august 10,1932:the station became a japan national railways miyazu line station when the line was renamed.
april 1,1987:the station became a west japan railway company(jr west)station from the split privatization of japan national railways.
april 1,1990:the station became a kitakinki tango railway station when the control of the miyazu line was transferred to the kitakinki tango railway.
july 1990:the station building was reconstructed as it stands today.
march 16,1996:electrification of miyazu station-amanohashidate station section of the line was completed.
the limited express trains hashidate and monju of jr west commenced operations.
ekiben(train lunch)
tango no sasazushi sassa
tango sushi
kakinoha saba-zushi
neighboring stations
kitakinki tango railway
miyazu line
local
miyazu station-amanohashidate station-iwataki-guchi station
