hashimoto station(kyoto prefecture)
hashimoto station,located in yawata city,kyoto prefecture,is a railroad facility on the keihan main line,which is operated by the keihan electric railway.
from the osaka side,it's the first keihan main line station in kyoto prefecture.
station layout
it is an aboveground station with two separate platforms serving two tracks.
each platform has its own ticket gates,and no transfer is allowed between the platforms for inbound and outbound trains(there is a crossing outside the ticket gates).
the ticket gates for both lines are on the side of the platforms toward kuzuha station.
platforms
*each of the platforms has an effective length sufficient to accommodate eight cars.
no platform numbers are displayed.
neither platform has a roof on either of its ends,and the lack of shelter causes complaints among passengers during the rainy season.
station surroundings
as its name(literally "bridge end")suggests,hashimoto station is located at an end of a former bridge(yamazaki-bashi bridge)crossing the yodo-gawa river;after the bridge was lost,there was a ferry service running between hashimoto and yamazaki,which operated until 1962.
so,although hashimoto wasn't officially a posting station during the edo period,it flourished as a tourist town on the kyokaido road,subsequently becoming a red-light district.
the rows of old japanese houses on the west side of the station are reminiscent of the old days.
currently,the area on the east side of the station is a residential district that has been created by leveling off a mountain,but it was part of a natural mountain environment with animal trails running all the way to the west of iwashimizu-hachiman-gu shrine,before it was developed by the keihan electric railway;it was also known for having an area at the foot of the mountain where prostitutes would commit suicide as the result of quarrels in the red-light district.
there is toganoo-jinja shrine,which is a guardian deity of this area,slightly above the east side of the station.
residential district(hashimoto kibogaoka)
otokoyama housing complex
saiyu-ji temple and kushuon-in temple(used as the base camp of the tokugawa shogunate army during the battle of toba-fushimi in 1868)
the yawata hashimoto post office
the hashimoto police station
the hashimoto community center
fourth district auditorium
toganoo-jinja shrine
hashimoto sluiceway
keihan hashimoto substation
route bus services
at the site of the former tsuda electric wire&cable company factory,which is located slightly south of the station,there is the keihan bus company's keihan hashimoto bus stop.
bus services are available for the following routes:
route 13b:buses for kuzuha station
route 78a:buses for keihan bus otokoyama eigyosho(otokoyama bus office)
history
april 15,1910:hashimoto station opened and concurrently with the opening of the keihan main line.
october 1,1943:the station became a facility of the keihanshin express railway(or the hankyu railway)as a result of amalgamation.
december 1,1949:the station became a station of the keihan electric railway due to the split-up of the railway company.
about 1992:the station building was renovated in order to expand the platforms for eight-car trains,install flush toilets and create slopes for wheelchairs.
adjacent stations
keihan electric railway
keihan main line
k-limited express/limited express/rapid express
these trains don't stop at the station.
semi express/local
kuzuha station-hashimoto station-yawatashi station
