joyo station
joyo station,located at 7 hayashinokuchi oaza-terada,joyo city,kyoto prefecture,is a stop on the nara line of the west japan railway company(jr west).
station layout
once a small station with a single platform and track on one side only,it was reborn as a fine over-track station in may 1991,spanning two platforms opposite each other and two tracks in between.
station operations are commissioned to jr west japan transportation service co.,ltd.
the icoca and j-thru cards can be used at this station as well pitapa cards(surutto kansai association),subject to their mutual use with icoca cards.
this station is an operational boundary station,and two out of four local trains every hour turn back at this station for shuttle operations during the daytime.
because trains for shuttle operations use the draw-out track,which is not very common for jr,the westerly platform is used for kyoto bound trains and the easterly platform is used either for trains terminating at this station or those bound for nara(some trains for kyoto),thus representing a completely segregated arrangement.
usage status
the number of passengers boarding at this station came to approximately 3,266 per day in fiscal year 2006.
(source:kyoto prefecture statistical report)
station surroundings
joyo city hall
joyo post office
kyoto prefectural joyo high school
sanga town joyo
mito-jinja shrine
kuse-jinja shrine
shodokanga-iseki ruin
terada station(kyoto prefecture)(kintetsu kyoto line):about a 15-minute walk to the west.
bus routes
joyo sansan bus
history
july 11,1958:the station was inaugurated.
april 1,1987:the station became a jr west station due to the split privatization of japan national railways.
may 21,1991:the renovated facility was reopened as an over-track station with two platforms opposite each other and double tracks.
neighboring stations
west japan railway company(jr west)
■nara line
■miyakoji rapid service
uji station(jr west)-joyo station-tamamizu station
■rapid service
shinden station(kyoto prefecture)-joyo station-tamamizu station
■regional rapid service/■local
shinden station-joyo station-nagaike station
