ogura station
ogura station,located in kaguraden,ogura-cho,uji city,kyoto prefecture,is a stop on the kintetsu kyoto line,which is operated by kintetsu corporation.
nearby is jr ogura station,which is on the nara line of west japan railway company(jr west).
station layout
the station is above ground with two separate platforms that face each other with two sets of tracks running between.
the platforms are effectively six carriage lengths long.
because there is no overpass or underpass linking the two platforms,there are separate ticket gates for each.
there are restrooms located inside the platform's ticket gate:men's and women's toilets are separate,each being a vault toilet.
formerly the station was equipped with a sidetrack that allowed priority trains to pass through;however,a portion of the current platform arrangement has been built above the old sidetrack.
this sidetrack have ceased the practice when the adjacent mukaijima station commenced using the sidetrack in the mid-1980s.
the automatic ticket gate was manufactured by toshiba.
the red-colored ticket gates(eg-2000)can handle two ic cards at a time when a passenger is exiting,and pitapa card and icoca,both of which are ic cards,are available for payment of railway fares at this ticket gate.
passenger use
according to a survey taken on november 8,2005,18,542 passengers used the facility.
it's ranked thirty-eighth among all stations surveyed by kintetsu(323 stations at that time).
it's ranked seventh among stations along the kyoto line(26,including yamato-saidaiji station).
this station has the highest number of passengers among stations that express trains pass without stopping on the kyoto line.
it's ranked fifth among railway stations in kyoto prefecture(23 stations).
station surroundings
the ogura post office
the heiwado supermarket
kinsho store supermarket
nintendo ogura uji factory
kyoto prefectural uji nishi high school
bus
invariably a keihan uji bus
in front of ogura station
it is located on the west side of pedestrian crossing which is located in front of the ogura branch of the bank of kyoto which is northwest of the station.
route 310:for okubo station(kyoto prefecture)/uji city hall and uji city cultural center(via uji station(jr west))
kintetsu ogura
it's east of the station on the prefectural route.
routes 35&35b:for kintetsu okubo/uji shako-depot(route 35)and the front of kyoto prefectural todo senior high school(route 35b),respectively
history
november 3,1928:the route from nara electric railway momoyamagoryomae station to saidaiji(present day yamato-saidaiji station)opened.
december 1962:a sidetrack leading off both sets of tracks was established(but later abandoned).
october 1,1963:the facility became a kintetsu station due to the company merger.
april 1,2007:pitapa card became usable.
nara electric railroad made plans to diverge from here,heading toward the vicinity of tamatsukuri station on the osaka loop line,the fourth line of the keihan(kyoto-osaka)city link line.
adjacent stations
kintetsu corporation
kyoto line
express
nonstop
semi-express/local
mukaijima station-ogura station-iseda station
