funaoka station(kyoto prefecture)
funaoka station,located in sonobe-cho,nantan city,kyoto prefecture,is a railway station on the sanin main line,which is operated by the west japan railway company(jr west).
each station on the sanin main line heading toward fukuchiyama from this station until igumi station falls under the control of west japan railway company's fukuchiyama branch(however,only stations up to wadayama station are under direct control of the branch).
the stations from the adjacent sonobe station are under the control of the kyoto branch of the west japan railway company,with the boundary for both branches being sonobe station.
also,icoca/j-through cards can't be used from this station onward toward fukuchiyama.
station layout
the station is above ground,the tracks are located on embankments,and there is an island platform with two tracks that can handle traffic in both directions.
the unmanned station has no station building,so passengers proceed directly to the platform.
automatic ticket vending machine aren't provided.
moreover,stations from here on down the electrified section of the line are mainly for local trains(stopping at all stations),and the raised platforms can only handle four cars.
*normally,inbound and outbound trains use platform 2.
platform 1 is only used when a train is waiting for another train headed in the opposite direction.
station surroundings
kyoto prefectural route 25:kameoka-sonobe line
the funaoka kani post office
nantan municipal kawabe elementary school
passenger use
the number of daily passengers was about 60 in fiscal year 2006.
(according to the kyoto prefecture statistics report)
history
october 10,1953:it opened as a station of japan national railways.
services were for passenger traffic only.
april 1,1987:the station became a jr west facility as a result of the split and privatization of the japan national railways.
adjacent stations
west japan railway company(jr west)
sanin main line
sonobe station-funaoka station-hiyoshi station(kyoto prefecture)
