fushimi station(kyoto prefecture)
fushimi station,located in shibatayashiki-cho,fukakusa,fushimi ward,kyoto city,kyoto prefecture,is a railroad facility on the kintetsu kyoto line of kintetsu corporation.
station layout
it is an elevated station equipped with two separate platforms serving two tracks between them.
the effective platform length is equal to six cars.
the ticket inspection facility and concourse are on the first floor,and the platforms are on the second floor.
it has only one ticket gate.
the station was constructed by elevating the railway,because at the time of the construction the kyoto city tram fushimi line(disused in 1970)was running on national route 24(takeda-kaido road)to the north of the station,and it was necessary to replace the existing crossings with those of the overhead type.
during the time of the nara railway,when it was a part of the nara line,the line had grade crossings and on both lines there were several incidents of train crashes.
the automatic ticket gates were manufactured by toshiba.
a red-colored automatic ticket gate(eg-2000)has the two-ticket processing function at the outgoing ticket usage check,and it accepts pitapa and icoca.
passenger use
according to a survey conducted on november 8,2005,the number of the users was 6,361.
this was the 101st position among all the kintetsu railway stations targeted by the survey(323 as of the survey date).
it ranked nineteenth out of all the stations on the kyoto line(26,including yamato-saidaiji station).
it ranked seventeenth out of all the kintetsu railway stations within kyoto city(23 stations).
station surroundings
the fushimi post office
izumiya fushimi store
national route 24
kyoto city fushimi sumiyoshi elementary school
the senior high school attached to the kyoto university of education
keihan main line sumizome station
at shibatayashiki-cho park located to the north side of the station,an old-time kyoto municipal traffic bureau type 1800 train(no.1829)is conserved and used as an assembly room.
buses
the nearest bus stop is bohana,situated along the takeda-kaido road a five-minute walk from the station.
kyoto city bus yokooji office route 81/route toku-81:bound for kyoto station/for yokooji shako(depot).
history
november 15,1928:the station was inaugurated when the nara electric railway began operating between kyoto station and momoyamagoryomae station.
october 1,1963:it became a station of kintetsu railway due to the company merger.
april 1,2007:pitapa became accepted at the station.
others
the section(with this station as a midpoint)was constructed,making use of the road bed that the japan national railways(jnr)nara line(former nara railway,which was later transferred to kansai railway company)had been using until the route was changed in 1921,and during the times of the nara railway there was a station at nearly the same place.
september 5,1895:the station was opened by nara railway.
february 7,1905:the nara railway was transferred to the kansai railway company.
october 1,1907:the kansai railway company became subject to the railway nationalization act.
august 1,1921:the section between kyoto station and this station was discontinued due to the route change.
it became a freight station.
september 3,1928:the operation between momoyama station and this station was discontinued.
it became a disused station.
adjacent stations
kintetsu railway
kyoto line
express/semi-express
nonstop
local
takeda station(kyoto prefecture)-fushimi station-kintetsu-tambabashi station
