tango-kanzaki station
tango-kanzaki station,located in yugo,maizuru city,kyoto prefecture,is a stop on the miyazu line,which is operated by kitakinki tango railway(ktr).
the trains of limited express 'tango discovery' (which arrive at and depart from kyoto station and go to kumihama station,toyooka station(hyogo prefecture)and kinosakionsen station via the sanin main line(sagano line)and the maizuru line of west japan railway company(jr west))sometimes stop at this station on special occasions,but basically only local trains(all operated by one person between nishi-maizuru station and toyooka station(hyogo prefecture),but some of them between amino station and fukuchiyama station(via the miyafuku line))stop here.
the trains between tango-kanzaki station and nishi-maizuru station run within maizuru city.
station layout
it is an unmanned station with a platform serving a track.
station surroundings
the kanzaki sea-bathing beach(approximately ten minutes on foot)
a ceremony for the start of the sea-bathing season is held on july 1 each year,and during that season the limited express 'tango discovery' stops at this station for sea bathers.
the hoffmann-style ring kiln of the old kanzaki brickyard is one of the four hoffmann-style kilns remaining in japan.
precious modernization-related assets
maimai house,a child center in kanzaki
the estuary of the yura-gawa river
maizuru municipal kanzaki elementary school
passenger use
in fiscal year 2006,the average daily number of persons who boarded at this station was 27.
(according to the kyoto prefecture statistics report)
history
(april 12,1924:the station became operational.)
june 22,1957:the station,the construction of which had been requested by people in the area,went into operation.
april 1,1987:due to the division and privatization of japan national railways,it became a station of west japan railway company(jr west).
april 1,1990:the miyazu line was transferred to kitakinki tango railway,and it became a station of that railway company.
2006:the lavatory was converted to a flush toilet.
adjacent stations
miyazu line
shinonome station(kyoto prefecture)-tango-kanzaki station-tango-yura station
