yamazaki station(kyoto prefecture)
yamazaki station,located in oyamazaki-cho,otokuni-gun,kyoto prefecture,is a stop on the tokaido main line(jr kyoto line),which is operated by the west japan railway company(jr west).
at yamazaki station,icoca/j-through cards can be used(refer to the section on icoca with respect to the mutually available ic cards).
although the station building is located in kyoto prefecture,part of the station site resides in yamazaki,shimamoto-cho,mishima-gun,osaka prefecture,and there is a sign on the platform that indicates the prefectural boundary.
a curve(unofficially called the suntory curve)extending in the direction of osaka from the station is famous as a key site for taking pictures of trains.
until shimamoto station was opened,the distance from yamazaki station to the next station,takatsuki,had been the longest compared to other sections on the jr kyoto line.
station layout
yamazaki station is an aboveground station with two platforms serving four tracks and a side track on the outbound track.
the outside tracks have been closed.
because the platforms stand on the sloped side,the station building is located at a lower level compared to the platforms.
the tracks on the kyoto side of the station immediately form a steep curve of r5,and consequently the trains passing the station reduce their speed to 100 km/h before they enter the station.
adjacent to yamazaki station is a suntory distillery,and once there existed side tracks of a larger scale.
station layout
oyamazaki station,of the hankyu railway,is located about 180 meters from yamazaki station(a four-minute walk),which is the shortest distance between any two consecutive stations in the section between kyoto and osaka.
superior trains do not stop at these stations,but passengers use the stations for transfer.
transportation
a bus stop of keihan bus co.,ltd.(with special buses bound for kyoto race course running on the days of horse racing operated by the japan racing association)
a bus stop of keihan city bus(buses running to(keihan)yodo station)
a bus stop of hankyu bus co.,ltd.
sightseeing spots
yamazaki-no-tatakai-ato(remains of the battle of yamazaki))
minase-jingu shrine
sakurai-eki-ato(site of sakurai station)
sekidaimyo-jinja shrine
myoki-an temple
taian teahouse(a natioanl treasure)
asahi beer oyamazaki villa museum
oyamazakicho historic museum
dainen-ji temple(oyamazaki-cho)
hoshaku-ji temple
yamazaki shoten(kannon-ji temple)
sakatoke-jinja shrine
remains of the oyamazaki tile kiln(a national historic site)
suntory yamazaki distillery
others
old saigoku kaido road
the yamazakiekimae post office
passenger use
the number of passengers per day was about 6,929 in fiscal year 2006.
(according to the kyoto prefecture statistics report)
history
august 9,1876:yamazaki station was opened by japan national railways(jnr).
passenger and freight services were offered.
october 1,1971:the freight service was discontinued.
april 1,1987:the station came to be operated by jr west as a result of the division and privatization of jnr.
adjacent stations
west japan railway company(jr west)
jr kyoto line(tokaido main line)
special rapid/rapid
special rapid and rapid trains don't stop at yamazaki station.
local(including local ones that run as rapid trains at takatsuki station and stations to the west)
nagaokakyo station-yamazaki station-shimamoto station
