miyakehachiman station
miyakehachiman station,located in the sakyo ward of kyoto city,kyoto prefecture,is a stop on the eizan main line of the eizan-dentetsu(eizan electric railway).
station layout
it's an unmanned station with two separate platforms serving two tracks.
the demachiyanagi station-bound platform has a roof the length of a vehicle,whereas the yase-hieizanguchi station-bound platform has a smaller roof in the middle with a bench.
the fence and columns supporting the roofs are painted in vermilion colors,as associated with miyake hachimangu shrine.
the main entrance is on the yase-hieizanguchi station side of the platforms along with a level crossing in the station(class 1 ko),and another small entrance is located on the demachiyanagi side of the demachiyanagi-bound platform.
none of the inbound and outbound platforms is barrier-free.
the route from the track level to the platform level can be accessed only by stairs,and consequently caretakers are needed for persons in wheelchairs.
station surroundings
ohara-kaido(national route 367)is about 100 meters to the south of miyake-bashi bridge over the takano-gawa river(kyoto city).
the area around the station is a residential area that contains some old farmhouses.
hodo-ji temple
rinko-in temple
seiken-ji temple
renge-ji temple(sakyo ward,kyoto city)
miyake hachimangu shrine(see the 'others' section below)
kyoto municipal kamitakano elementary school
takano-gawa river(kyoto city)
eizan-dentetsu(eizan electric railway)kamitakano-hendensho(substation)(being neglected,the building remains as it used to be.)
bus stop
kyoto bus from the miyake hachiman bus stop
northbound bus
route nos.16,17,18,and 19--bound for 'ohara' via yase
route no.19--bound for 'kodeishi' via yase,ohara,kochidani
route no.10--bound for 'kutsuki-gakko mae' via(yase-shindo),ohara,(ohara-shindo),tochu,katsuragawa-nakamura,bomura,katsuragawa-umenoki,hosokawa,kuwanobashi
southbound bus
route no.17--bound for 'kyoto station' via hanazonobashi,takanobashi,demachiyanagi station,kojinbashi,sanjo-keihan,shijo-kawaramachi,shijo-karasuma
route no.18--bound for 'kyoto station' via hanazonobashi,ginkakuji-michi,hyakumamben,higashiyama-sanjo,higashiyama gojo(kiyomizu-dera temple),shichijo station
route no.19--bound for 'kokusaikaikan station' via hanazonobashi
route no.16--bound for 'shijo-kawaramachi' via hanazonobashi,takanobashi,demachiyanagi station,kojinbashi,sanjo-keihan,shijo-keihan
route no.10--bound for 'demachiyanagi station' via hanazonobashi,takanobashi
bus without route number--bound for takano shako depot
history
september 27,1925:the station opened as a station owned by kyoto dento.
march 2,1942:the station came to be owned by the keifuku electric railroad due to the transfer of the company.
april 1,1986:the station came to be owned by the eizan electric railway as a result of the transfer of the company.
others
hachimanmae station(kyoto prefecture)on the kurama line of the eizan electric railway is closer to miyake hachimangu shrine,from which the station name was originated,but miyakehachiman station leads to an official approach(omotesando)to the shrine,and a vermillion o-torii(gateway)of the shrine can be seen from the station in the northerly direction.
neighboring stations
eizan main line
takaragaike station-miyakehachiman station-yase-hieizanguchi station
