momoyama goryo-mae station
momoyama goryo-mae station,located in kannonji-cho of fushimi ward,kyoto city,kyoto prefecture,is a stop on the kintetsu kyoto line of the kintetsu corporation.
station layout
it's an elevated station with two platforms opposite each other and two tracks in between.
each platform has a length sufficient to accommodate six cars.
the ticket gates and concourse are located on the ground floor,and platforms are on the second.
ticket gates are found in only one place.
it was an elevated station from the outset.
a grade-separated crossing was required due to its location in a built-up area;moreover,it was rumored that the authorities would not approve a grade crossing with the approach to the momoyama goryo mausoleum,and it was said that the proposal for underground facilities was rejected by the fushimi sake brewers on the grounds that it would block the underground water vein.
the distance to neighboring kintetsu tanbabashi station is a meager 500 meters.
the automated ticket gates were manufactured by toshiba.
the red-colored automated ticket gates(eg-2000)can process two tickets together when exiting,and they're compatible with the pitapa and icoca cards.
usage status
according to a survey conducted on november 8,2005,the number of passengers getting on and off at this station on that particular day was 15,407.
it ranked forty-seventh among kintetsu stations subject to the survey(323 stations at the time of the survey).
it ranked ninth among kyoto line stations(a total of 26,including yamato-saidaiji station).
it ranked seventh among kintetsu stations(23 stations)located in kyoto prefecture.
station surroundings
fushimi-momoyama(goryo)mausoleum(emperor meiji mausoleum,momoyama mausoleum)
nogi-jinja shrine(kyoto city)
fushimi-momoyama-jo castle
fushimi momoyama station-keihan main line(kintetsu tanbabashi station,which is next,is the official station of transfer to the keihan main line).
chushojima station-keihan main line
momoyama station-nara line(500 meters eastward,about 10 minutes on foot)
gokonomiya-jinja shrine(meisui-hyakusen)
gekkeikan okura sake museum
kizakura kappa country
kyoto city,fushimi ward office
kyoto kyomachi post office
national route 24
fushimi otesuji shopping street
kyoto prefecture red cross blood center(blood donation room:fushimi otesuji)
routed bus
for the time being there are no route buses serving kintetsu momoyama-goryo-mae station.
the nearest bus stops are the gokonomiya-mae bus stop(kyoto city bus)and the momoyama bus stop(kintetsu bus)located on national route 24,a three-minute walk from the station.
both bus stops are located side-by-side.
it is also possible to get on at the nishi-otesuji bus stop.
kintetsu bus co.,ltd.had a regular route in the days when fushimi-momoyama-jo castle land was in business,but that route was discontinued when the facilities closed.
commercial facilities were subsequently constructed where the bus stop was once located,and a supermarket is now in business there.
gokonomiya-mae/momoyama
kyoto city bus yokooji office south route no.8:for takeda station(kyoto prefecture)east entrance/yokooji shako depot
route no.10:for mukaijima station
nishi-otesuji
kyoto city bus yokooji office route no.81 and route toku no.81:for kyoto-eki-mae(kyoto station)via kanjinbashi
kyoto city bus yokooji office route no.22:for minami kogyo-danchi(industrial park)
kyoto city bus yokooji office route no.20:for yokooji shako depot
kyoto city bus yokooji office route no.19:for kyoto-eki-mae(kyoto station)via kujo-eki-mae(kujo station)
history
november 3,1928:the station opened when the section between momoyama goryo-mae station and saidaiji station(now yamato-saidaiji station)of nara electric railway commenced operations.
november 15,1928:nara electric railway's services between kyoto and momoyama goryo-mae section commenced.
october 1,1963:the station became a kintetsu corporation station due to the corporate merger.
april 1,2007:the use of pitapa cards commenced.
others
this station and fushimi-momoyama station were the line's junction to keihan until 1945,when both lines began sharing tracks to tanbabashi station.
the arrangement made it possible for express trains to stop at keihan line's fushimi-momoyama station.
nearby establishments include the emperor meiji mausoleum(the completion of the terminal was expedited in time for the ensuing ceremonial events),the main office from the days of nara electric railway and a busy shopping mall.
due to such circumstances,the station building is somewhat upscale for an installation of its time.
neighboring stations
kintetsu corporation
kyoto line
express
kintetsu tanbabashi station-momoyama goryo-mae station-okubo station(kyoto prefecture)
semi express/local
kintetsu tanbabashi station-momoyama goryo-mae station-mukaijima station
