umahori station
umahori station,located in umahori,shino-cho,kameoka city,kyoto prefecture,is a facility of sanin main line that is operated by the west japan railway company(jr west).
the abbreviated station name(for telegraph)is 'fuchiuma.'
icoca and j-through cards can be used at this station(see the column on icoca regarding ic cards that are mutually usable).
lines available for transfer
the sagano scenic railway's sagano sight-seeing tram line(kameoka torokko station)is a ten-minute walk(500 m)along the track from umahori station.
station layout
this station is a ground station having a pair of separate platforms for two tracks.
because the kameoka side of this station is a single-track section and the kyoto side is double-track section,trains can use this station to pass each other.
platform 2 is situated on the side of the main station building,and it's linked to platform 1 by an overpass.
although the station was once unmanned,it has become a manned station due to the increase of passengers associated with housing land development carried out nearby since the 1960s;currently,the jr ticket office "midori-no-madoguchi" is also in service.
the work conducted at the station is outsourced to jr-west japan transportation service co.,ltd.
passenger use
according to statistics compiled by the kyoto prefectural government,the average number of passengers a day in fiscal year 2006 was 4,690.
because the surrounding area of the station consists of bedroom suburbs of kyoto,the number of passengers is quite large relative to the size of the station and the congestion of the trains bound for kyoto is relatively heavy during certain hours.
additionally,as the terminal of the sagano sight-seeing tram line is located a short distance away,many nearby residents hope the rapid trains will stop at this station.
many tourists use this station,since it's a transfer station to kameoka torokko station.
station surroundings
tokuju-in temple
shinomura hachiman-gu shrine
kuwata-jinja shrine
oji-jinja shrine
hozukyo gorge
umahori branch of kameoka city library
kameoka municipal hospital
shotoku junior high school,kameoka city
ansho elementary school,kameoka city
shotoku elementary school,kameoka city
heiwado al plaza
matsumoto(kyoto prefecture)belle town umahori
umahori branch,kyoto hokuto shinkin bank
national route 9(sanin expressway)
old sanin expressway(oji namikawa line of kyoto prefectural route 402)
bus routes
keihan kyoto kotsu
history
july 20,1935:the station commenced operation as a facility of japan national railways(jnr).
passenger service only
april 1,1987:the station became a facility of jr west due to the division and privatization of jnr.
march 5,1989:the section between saga-arashiyama and this station was replaced by newly constructed track.
the station was moved to its current location.
adjacent stations
west japan railway company(jr west)
sagano line(sanin main line)
rapid
they pass through this station.
local
hozukyo station-umahori station-kameoka station
