ranzan-tenjingawa station
ranzan-tenjingawa station,located in uzumasa-shimokeibu-cho,ukyo ward,kyoto city,kyoto prefecture,is a stop on the arashiyama main line,which is operated by the keifuku electric railroad co.,ltd.
the station number is a6.
history of the station's opening
ranzan-tenjingawa station was built as a station for transfers to uzumasa-tenjingawa station between kaikonoyashiro station and yamanouchi station(kyoto prefecture),along with the extension of the tozai line of the kyoto municipal subway between nijo station and uzumasa-tenjingawa station,which was opened on january 16,2008.
ranzan-tenjingawa station was opened two months after the extension of the tozai line.
prior to the station's opening,for a period of two months the neighboring kaikonoyashiro station served as a transfer point.
the total construction cost was 643 million yen,of which kyoto prefecture funded 616 million yen,and the construction began in november 2007.
ranzan-tenjingawa station marked the second time(after rokuoin station,which opened in 1956)in 52 years that the keifuku electric railroad co.,ltd.,built a new,intermediate station on the existing line.
incidentally,a temporary intermediate station built in 1992 by the keifuku electric railroad co.,ltd.,is jinai ground-mae station on the mikuni-awara line,currently operated by the echizen railway.
the section that the keihan keishin line enters was extended from kyoto shiyakusho-mae station to ranzan-tenjingawa station on the same date,allowing passengers to transfer at ranzan-tenjingawa station from the keihan keishin line and keihan ishiyama-sakamoto main line,thereby improving access to arashiyama and sagano.
station layout
ranzan-tenjingawa station is an aboveground station with two separate platforms serving two tracks.
although ranzan-tenjingawa station is in a tramway section situated on the road,platforms are provided instead of a safety zone.
a roof covers the platforms in their entirety.
further,a roof covers the passage that connects the exit of the subway station and ranzan-tenjingawa station.
staff aren't usually stationed at ranzan-tenjingawa station,but staff will be stationed mainly on weekends during the tourist seasons.
the station,at the planning phase,was going to be built adjacent to the sidewalk east of sanjo-dori street;now the station stands in the center of sanjo-dori street,on the north and south ways.
station surroundings
uzumasa-tenjingawa station(tozai line,kyoto municipal subway)
sansa ukyo(government office of ukyo ward and the kyoto municipal transportation bureau)
history
march 28,2008:the station opened.
adjacent stations
keifuku electric railroad
arashiyama main line
yamanouchi station(kyoto prefecture)(a5)-ranzan-tenjingawa station(a6)-kaikonoyashiro station(a7)
the distance to the neighboring kaikonoyashiro station is approximately 250 m,and the working distance is 0.2 km.
