nagaokatenjin station
nagaokatenjin station,located in nagaokakyo city,kyoto prefecture,is a stop on the hankyu kyoto line,which is operated by the hankyu railway.
although formerly many trains on this line would pass through the station,today all trains on the line stop here.
in the early morning and late evening,the first train for kawaramachi station departs from this station and the last train from kawaramachi station arrives at this station(there is a crossover on the north side of the station).
during the early morning,rapid express and semi-express trains for umeda station are operated.
station layout
an aboveground station with two island platforms serving four tracks,nagaokatenjin station has a passing loop and the station building is located on the bridge.
there are exits on the east and west.
there is only one ticket gate.
there is a two-way escalator on the east side,but the west side has only an up escalator.
there are elevators on both the east and west sides.
passenger use
the number of passengers per day was about 18,992 in fiscal year 2003(according to the kyoto prefecture statistics report).
station surroundings
nagaoka tenman-gu shrine
the nagaokakyo city hall
the nagaoka kaiden post office
the seiyu,ltd.
izumiya co.,ltd.
west japan railway company(jr west),nagaokakyo station
lawson.inc.(located at the east exit of the station)
bus
hankyu nagaokatenjin(a two-minute walk from the station's west exit)
the operations of hankyu bus co.,ltd.,are managed by the oyamazaki business office(while only routes 71 and 72 are operated by the muko sub-branch of the oyamazaki business office);however,services are subcontracted to hankyu denen bus co.,ltd.
routes 12/13:bound for the driver's license center
bound for nagaokakyo station
routes 71/72:bound for tomooka,kugai,and nagaokakyo station/for hankyu higashimuko station via nagaokakyo station,hishikawa,shimo-kuze,nakakuze and jr mukomachi station
others are bound for destinations in nagaokakyo city.
complimentary shuttle service is provided for visitors to the suntory kyoto brewery during the day via nagaokakyo station(the special bus with an original coating is used,but during inspections an alternate bus is used).
nagaokakyo happy bus
two routes:the north course and west course
hankyu nagaokatenjin-minami(a three-minute walk from the east exit of the station to the south)
hankyu bus
route 12:bound for the driver's license center via hankyu nagaokatenjin
route 14:bound for koizumibashi
route 16:bound for hankyu nagaokatenjin
taxi stand
hankyu taxi,inc.(located at the station's west exit)
history
november 1,1928:nagaokatenjin station opened,concurrently with the opening of the section between takatsuki-cho station and saiin station of the shinkeihan railway.
september 15,1930:nagaokatenjin station became a stop on the shinkeihan line,operated by the keihan electric railway,as a result of amalgamation.
october 1,1943:nagaokatenjin station came to be operated by the keihanshin express railway(currently hankyu railway)as a result of amalgamation.
march 5,1979:all express(currently rapid express)trains came to stop at nagaokatenjin station(prior to that point,only(commuter)express trains would stop at the station).
march 24,2001:limited express trains came to stop at the station.
march 17,2007:commuter limited express began making stops at the station.
others
nagaokatenjin station is the first station on a bridge to be operated by the hankyu railway.
trains bound for umeda station run with their lights off during the day,but they sometimes turn on the lights at nagaokatenjin station because,in the section where trains cross the tokaido main line,it becomes as dark as in the tunnel.
adjacent stations
hankyu railway
kyoto main line
commuter limited express/limited express/rapid express
takatsukishi station-nagaokatenjin station-katsura station
semi express/local
oyamazaki station-nagaokatenjin station-nishimuko station
nagaokakyo city and hankyu railway agreed to build a new station at the intersection of the kyoto second outer ring road(under contemplation)and the section between nagaokatenjin and oyamazaki stations.
it has not been decided when the construction will begin or when the new station will open.
