oyamazaki station
oyamazaki station,located in oyamazaki-cho,otokuni-gun,kyoto prefecture,is a stop on the hankyu kyoto line,which is operated by the hankyu railway.
station layout
oyamazaki station is an elevated station having two separate platforms serving two tracks.
a ticket gate is on the ground level facing nishikyo takatsuki line of the kyoto and osaka prefectural route 67(saigoku kaido road).
*platform numbers are not assigned.
station surroundings
yamazaki-no-tatakai-ato(remains of the battle of yamazaki))
minase-jingu shrine
sakurai-eki-ato(site of sakurai station)
sekidaimyo-jinja shrine
myoki-an temple
taian teahouse
asahi beer oyamazaki villa museum
oyamazakicho historic museum
dainen-ji temple
hoshaku-ji temple
yamazaki shoten(kannon-ji temple)
sakatoke-jinja shrine
remains of the oyamazaki tile kiln(a national historic site)
suntory yamazaki distillery
the yamazakiekimae post office
yodo-gawa river
osaka senko co.,ltd.
old saigoku kaido road(nishikyo takatsuki line of the kyoto and osaka prefectural route 67)
national route 171
the linear distance from oyamazaki station to the jr kyoto line yamazaki station(kyoto prefecture)is approximately 180 meters.
oyamazaki station is along the tokaido shinkansen.
bus
the nearest bus stop is hankyu oyamazaki,which is located on the nishikyo takatsuki line of the kyoto and osaka prefectural route 67.
hankyu bus co.,ltd.,and keihan bus co.,ltd.,operate the following bus routes:
from yamazaki station,special buses for kyoto race course are operated on the days of horse racing,and special buses for yawatashi station are operated during the new year holidays.
route 18:bound for yamazaki station(kyoto prefecture)and nagaokakyo station(hankyu)
route 13:bound for yodo station(keihan)
passenger use
the number of passengers per day was about 3,255 in fiscal year 2003(according to the kyoto prefecture statistics report).
history
november 1,1928:oyamazaki station was opened when the section between takatsuki-cho station and kyoto saiin station of the shinkeihan railway was opened.
september 15,1930:oyamazaki station became a stop on the shinkeihan line,operated by the keihan electric railway,as a result of amalgamation.
october 1,1943:oyamazaki station came to be operated by the keihanshin express railway(the current hankyu railway)as a result of amalgamation.
april 24,1963:oyamazaki station was operated with temporary platforms,using the tracks of tokaido shinkansen during the elevation construction.
december 29,1963:the elevated tracks were completed.
the platforms were transferred to their current location.
adjacent stations
hankyu railway
kyoto main line
commuter limited express/limited express/rapid express
(commuter)limited express,limited express and rapid express trains don't stop at oyamazaki station.
semi express/local
minase station-oyamazaki station-nagaokatenjin station
nagaokakyo city and hankyu railway agreed to build a new station at the intersection of the kyoto second outer ring road(under contemplation)and the section between oyamazaki station and nagaokatenjin station.
it has not been decided when the construction will begin or when the new station will open.
