shugakuin station
shugakuin station,located in sakyo ward,kyoto city,is a railway station of the eizan main line operated by eizan electric railway co.,ltd.
station layout
this station is located on the ground level,with two platforms serving two tracks between them.
both platforms are almost entirely roofed.
although it's an unmanned station,automatic ticket machines are set on a platform for the trains bound for demachiyanagi station,while automatic ticket checkers(those without gates)that can handle kansai thru pass cards are available on both platforms,operating from the time of the first train until 22:30(10:30 p.m.).
the entrance is situated at the north side of the station facing kitayama-dori street(the side of takaragaike station).
common toilets for males and females are situated at the south end of the platform for trains bound for yase-hieizanguchi station/kurama station.
although persons in wheelchairs can move to the platform for outbound trains through a ramp beside the ticket checkers and to the rear of the platform for inbound trains through the entrance to the transportation section,it's impossible for them to move to the commuter ticket sales office and/or the toilets.
the length of both platforms is barely equivalent to that of three cars,and until the 1990s the exchange of a car between single-car trains and two-cars trains used to be done at this station.
flag signaling by the station's staff had long been used in conducting such exchange,but in recent times colored signal lamps that substitute for flag signaling have been employed.
today,such a scene is no more seen at this station because,when exchange is necessary,trains are driven without passengers to demachiyanagi station and the exchange is done there.
the eizan electric railway's transportation section is situated on the second floor of the rose mansion,a condominium,which is adjacent to the platform for trains bound for demachiyanagi station,and commuter tickets(as well as other kinds of tickets)are sold there.
(coupon tickets for adult fares are also sold at the seven-eleven kyoto shugakuin-ekimae store located in front of the station);the change of train crews is often done at this station.
transition
when the station commenced operation,it was located about 100m to the north and its entrance faced the street behind plaza shugakuin,which is currently located in front of the station;this street used to be a station road.
the structure of the station and arrangement of tracks were nearly what they are today.
the office for station and transportation related affairs was located west of the station,at the place where the current kitayama-dori street runs,and there were another offices and a warehouse at the place between the station road and rikyu-michi(the place where keifuku mansion is currently located).
the land behind the east platform was a kind of car barn backyard;abandoned trucks and parts were left on the tracks,which were overgrown with weeds.
until the 1960s,although a shop situated beside the entrance of the platform for trains bound for demachiyanagi station served as a ticket window in addition to its regular one,going in and out of the station was free under normal circumstances because the inspection and collection of tickets was done by train crews and the station staff at the place near the train doors on both platforms.
when kitayama-dori street was constructed in 1970,the station was moved about 100 meters south and the office was moved to a spot adjacent to the toilets in the current building.
incidentally,this building had been the head office of eizan electric railway co.,ltd.(registered head office)during the period from its independence until the completion of the building adjacent to demachiyanagi station.
because there were many apartments for students in the residential district east of the station,and because many fast-food restaurants--such as yoshinoya,hamburger shops and gyoza no ohsho--opened around the station in the 1980s,it can be said that the area around the station was most brilliant during this period.
these shops,however,have already withdrawn due to the decrease in the number of passengers using shugakuin station as well as the decrease in the area's student population--their principal customer constituency--caused by the relocation of universities from kyoto city to the southern region.
at shugakuin car barn,the transfer of some buildings and modification of the track arrangement were carried out due to the construction of kitayama-dori street,and as a result the turnout that is situated nearby the entrance became the company's only three-direction turnout.
under such circumstances,the abolished kyoto dento type dena-1 train--which had been used as a warehouse and resting room--was removed.
although rose mansion was constructed and the office eventually moved to the east side of the premises,the arrangement of tracks remains almost unchanged.
station surroundings
the station faces kitayama-dori street and is located at the north tip of higashioji-dori street.
the shugakuin car barn is situated just behind rose mansion,which is located southeast of the station.
shirakawa-dori street runs just east of the station,and kawabata-dori street runs west of the station.
the station is located at the northeast edge of kyoto basin,and old ohara-kaido road situated between higashioji-dori street and kawabata-dori street,west of the station,is a traditional shopping district.
even today,while the limited area surrounding the station is a commercial district--since plaza shugakuin is located in the eastern area of the station and there are a few supermarkets in the western area,including fresco(supermarket)shugakuin store,which is adjacent to the station(it has an entrance on the side of a platform)--the area slightly farther from the station is a residential district with the exception of the district along kitayama-dori street and shirakawa-dori street.
the residential district extending in the eastern area of the station is the biggest of those that lie along the company's line,and it's accessible on foot;also there are many premier sightseeing spots in the neighborhood.
therefore,the number of passengers is reduced by half once the train passes this station.
matsugasaki station,on the karasuma line of the kyoto municipal subway,is located about 800 meters west of this station.
shugakuin imperial villa
sekizanzen-in temple
manshu-in temple
saginomori-jinja shrine
matsugasaki daikokuten
kirarazaka slope(the route for the climb to mt.hiei and the origin for the common name of eizan electric railway type deo-900)
the kyoto yamabana post office
kyoto university shugakuin international house
kyoto municipal shugakuin elementary school
shugakuin branch,the bank of kyoto,ltd.
shugakuin branch,the kyoto shinkin bank
shugakuin branch,kyoto chuo shinkin bank
seven-eleven kyoto shugakuin-ekimae store(coupon tickets are on sale on consignment basis).
bus stops
shugakuin-michi bus stop
shirakawa-dori street(to the north)
kyoto city bus
route 5(kyoto city bus),route 31(kyoto city bus),route 65(kyoto city bus):buses bound for iwakura-soshajo bus yard via kokusaikaikan station
kyoto bus co.,ltd.
route 18(one service a day,on saturdays and holidays only):buses bound for ohara via takaragaike park and yase
shirakawa-dori street(to the south)
kyoto city bus
north route 8(kyoto city bus):buses bound for kitaoji bus terminal via kitaoji-dori street(loop)
route 5:buses bound for kyoto station via ginkakuji-michi,heian-jingu shrine,sanjo keihan-mae(front of sanjo keihan),shijo kawaramachi and shijo karasuma
route 31:buses bound for shijo karasuma via takano,chion-ji temple,gion and shijo kawaramachi(shijo karasuma onward,most buses run as the buses of route 65).
route 65:buses bound for shijo karasuma via kamihate-cho,hyakumanben,kumano and karasuma marutamachi(shijo karasuma onward,most buses run as the buses of route 31).
kyoto bus co.,ltd.
route 18(one service a day,on saturdays and holidays only):buses bound for kyoto station via ginkakuji-michi,hyakumanben,gion and higashiyama gojo(kiyomizu-dera temple).
route 55:buses bound for shijo kawaramachi via ginkakuji-michi,demachiyanagi station,sanjo keihan-mae and gion-shijo station(keihan)
kitayama-dori street(to the west):just east of the station
kyoto city bus
north route 8:buses bound for kitaoji bus terminal via kitayama-dori street(matsugasaki station(kyoto prefecture))and senbon-dori street(loop)
kyoto bus co.,ltd.
route 55:buses bound for matsugasaki kaijiri-cho(matsugasaki station)
kitayama-dori street(to the east):just east of the station,opposite side(although it's being suspended,only a pole exists as of january 3,2008)
the shugakuin station bus stop
kawabata-dori street(to the north)
kyoto bus co.,ltd.
route 10:buses bound for kuchiki via takaragaike,(yase shinmichi),ohara(ohara shinmichi),tochu and katsuragawa umenoki
route 16 and 17:buses bound for ohara via takaragaike and yase
route 21 and 23:buses bound for iwakura jisso-in temple via takaragaike and iwakura station(kyoto prefecture)
route 41 and 43:buses bound for iwakura muramatsu via takaragaike and iwakura station
kawabata-dori street(to the south)
kyoto bus co.,ltd.
route 16:buses bound for shijo kawaramachi via demachiyanagi station and sanjo keihan-mae
route 17:buses bound for kyoto station via demachiyanagi station,sanjo keihan-mae,shijo kawaramachi and shijo karasuma
route 21 and 41:buses bound for shijo kawaramachi via demachiyanagi station and furitsu idaibyoin-mae(university hospital,kyoto prefectural university of medicine)
others:buses bound for kyoto bus takano eigyosho(takano business office)and demachiyanagi station are available.
kitayama-dori street(to east and to west):it's far from the station,since it's located across the takano-gawa river.
buses are available for some of the above-mentioned routes.
history
september 27,1925:the station commenced operations as a facility of kyoto dento.
march 2,1942:the station became a facility of keifuku electric railroad co.,ltd.,due to the assignment of the company.
1970:the station was moved about 100 meters south due to the opening of kitayama-dori street.
april 1,1986:the station became a facility of eizan electric railway co.,ltd.,due to the assignment of the company.
adjacent stations
eizan electric railway co.,ltd.
eizan main line
ichijoji station-shugakuin station-takaragaike station
