rokujizo station
located in the fushimi ward of kyoto city and in uji city of kyoto prefecture,rokujizo station is a stop on keihan electric railway,west japan railway company(jr west)and kyoto municipal subway lines.
rokujizo stations of jr west and kyoto municipal subway are located in uji city and that of keihan electric railway,in kyoto city's fushimi ward.
accessible railway facilities
keihan electric railway
keihan uji line
west japan railway company(jr west)
nara line
kyoto municipal subway
kyoto municipal subway tozai line(t01)-terminal station
icoca(jr west)and pitapa(surutto kansai association)cards can be used on all three lines.
however,the use of j-thru cards is limited to jr lines,various kansai thru pass-compatible cards limited to kyoto municipal subway line and keihan line,and traffica kyo cards(kyoto municipal transportation bureau)can be used only on kyoto municipal subway lines.
overview
kyoto municipal subway's rokujizo station is its only station located outside kyoto city limits.
the stations of jr west and kyoto municipal subway are located at nearly the same relative location above ground and underground.
both stations are some 10 minutes on foot from the keihan station.
the transfer between the two stations entails a walk on the road along the yamashina-gawa river.
the terminal of routed buses running on nearby roads is keihan rokujizo station(the bus stop is 'keihan rokujizo').
this is the bus depot for sanjo-keihan,shijo-kawaramachi,keihan-yamashina,okurayama-danchi,etc.
the nearest bus stops for jr and kyoto municipal subway's rokujizo station is 'jr rokujizo' and 'jr rokujizo-kitaguchi' (also a 'jr rokujizo-itoyokado-mae' stop on keihan uji bus route).
station layout
keihan electric railway
it is an above-ground station with two platforms opposite each other and double tracks constructed on an embankment.
tickets gates are located on the first floor,and platforms are on the second.
ticket gates are installed at only one place.
restrooms are located near the stairway leading to the platform for chushojima.
the only means to go from the ticket gates to the platforms is by way of stairs,and it's the only station on the uji line lacking so-called barrier-free facilities such as elevators,escalators,multiple-use restrooms,etc.
transfer-related guidance and information to jr and kyoto municipal subway is not made available on the platforms.
keihan buses(for yamashina station,sanjo-keihan,hino,etc..)and keihan uji buses(for okurayama)leave for their respective destinations from the bus terminal in front of the station.
platforms at one time were located at ground level,but the tracks were relocated when embankments for the yamashina-gawa river were constructed,and the station came to be constructed on back-fill.
the former railway track used to be laid in the days of the ground-level platform remains at a site 200 meters along the eastern side of the station.
it was also one station at which 'uji rapid trains' operated in 1998 and 1999 on keihan main line,as the seasonal trains had stopped.
※both platforms have an effective length to accommodate a five-car train.
track/platform numbers are not indicated.
jr west
as it is an elevated station having an narrow,island-type platform that is located on a curved section with tracks on both sides,so that a rather excessive gap is created between the train and the platform,announcement of that fact is made in the trains to gain the attention of alighting passengers.
ticket gates are installed at only one place.
kyoto municipal subway
the terminal station of the tozai line and its station number is t01.
a single,island-type platform between tracks and platform doors is installed.
tickets gates are installed at only one place.
each station on the tozai line has its own color,and the color used at rokujizo station is that of forget-me-not(light blue.)
kyoto subway's rokujizo station is only a stone's throw from jr rokujizo station but a 10-minute walk to the keihan rokujizo station.
however,surprisingly large numbers of people get on for the short distance between the two stations.
again,tickets for a keihan keishin line station cannot be purchased at keihan's rokujizo station despite its being the same keihan,but a connecting ticket via misasagi can be purchased at the subway rokujizo station.
one underpass leads to the basement foodstuffs department.
elevators installed are all of otis elevator company(japan)manufacture except for those installed at gateway no.4,which were manufactured by hitachi.
elevators installed at gateway nos.2 and 4 are of the thoroughfare type(with doors on opposite sides).
station surroundings
ito-yokado(rokujizo store)
kohata elementary school
kyoto soto-kanjo-sen loop line
daizen-ji temple(kyoto prefecture)(one of the temples of rokujizo pilgrimage)
rokujizo general hospital
momo kintetsu(kintetsu department store momoyama store)
izumiya rokujizo store
kyoto-uji line of the kyoto prefectural route 7
kyoto animation new studio
usage status
jr west rokujizo station:the number of passengers boarding at this station came to approximately 6,647 per day in fiscal year 2006(source:kyoto prefecture statistical report).
keihan electric railway rokujizo station:the number of passengers boarding at this station came to approximately 4,578 per day in fiscal year 2006(source:same as above).
kyoto municipal subway rokujizo station:the number of passengers boarding at this station came to approximately 5,682 per day in fiscal year 2006(source:same as above).
history
june 1,1913:keihan electric railway station was inaugurated.
october 1,1943:keihan electric railway station became a keihanshin-kyuko-dentetsu(hankyu corporation)station as a result of amalgamation.
december 1,1949:keihanshin-kyuko-dentetsu station became a keihan electric railway company station as a result of corporate severance.
september 25,1953:keihan station was inundated when the yamashina-gawa river was brought to overflowing by the uji-gawa river back-flow,which was caused by typhoon no.13.
march 6,1966:the platform for chushojima was relocated atop a new embankment while raising yamashina-gawa riverbank and reconstructing the bridge.
march 20,1966:the platform for uji was relocated atop a new embankment while raising the yamashina-gawa riverbank and reconstructing the bridge.
the site of the former station is now the bus terminal in front of the current keihan station.
october 22,1992:jr west station was inaugurated.
may 10,1999:jr west station was upgraded to a station at which all rapid trains stopped throughout the day,based on the timetable revision.
november 26,2004:the station was inaugurated as a stop on the tozai line of the kyoto municipal subway tozai line incidental to its extension from daigo station.
neighboring stations
keihan electric railway
uji line
momoyama-minamiguchi station-rokujizo station-kohata station(keihan)
west japan railway company(jr west)
■nara line
■miyakoji rapid service/■rapid service/■regional rapid service
tofukuji station-rokujizo station-uji station(jr west)
■local
momoyama station-rokujizo station-kohata station(jr west)
kyoto municipal subway
■tozai line
rokujizo station(t01)-ishida station(kyoto prefecture)(t02)
