jr-fujinomori station
jr-fujinomori station,located at fukakusa okamedani oyama-cho 99,fushimi ward,kyoto city,kyoto prefecture,is a stop on the nara line,which is operated by the west japan railway company(jr west).
it's a stop in kyoto city,where the jr railway fare system of specific metropolitan and urban areas is applied.
station layout
jr-fujinomori station has two separate platforms and two tracks;the station building's functional center is on the second floor,and the station building and the track sit on the site created by digging out the ground,so the platforms can be seen from the ground level from outside the station.
additionally,the operation of the station is consigned to jr west kotsu service.
icoca and j-through card,both of which are passenger ic cards,are available for payment of railway fares at this station.
pitapa card is also available,which is compatible with icoca and is issued by surutto kansai association.
the train coming down from kyoto station runs on a single track from jr-fujinomori station toward the south.
passenger use
the number of daily passengers was about 2,701 in fiscal 2006.
(according to the kyoto prefecture statistics report)
station surroundings
kyoto university of education-originally,there was a plan to call the station 'kyoto kyoiku daigaku-mae(the front of kyoto university of education).'
fujinomori-jinja shrine
the kyoto fukakusa okamedani post office
sumizome-dori street
although the stop is called "jr-fujinomori station," sumizome station on the keihan main line(kml)is located nearer to it than fujinomori station on the kml.
nevertheless, "jr-fujinomori station" is the nearest stop from the address of fukakusa fujinomori-cho,fushimi ward,kyoto city(where the kyoto university of education is located).
connected bus services
kyoto city bus route rinnan 5:takeda station(kyoto prefecture)-fujinomori-jinja shrine-takeda station;on april 1,2006,the route of the bus service was changed in order to make a stop at takeda station.
history
march 8,1997:jr-fujinomori station began its operation in between the section from inari station to momoyama station,which had to that point been the longest section without a stop on the nara line.
origin of the station's name
"jr" is used at the head to distinguish this station from fujinomori station on the keihan main line.
the "jr" prefix is characteristic of jr west,so it is never seen in the other jr companies.
adjacent stations
west japan railway company(jr west)
nara line
miyakoji rapid service/rapid/regional rapid
nonstop
local
inari station-jr-fujinomori station-momoyama station
