醍醐駅→daigo station
daigo station,located in daigo takahata-cho,fushimi ward,kyoto city,is a stop on the tozai line,which is operated by kyoto municipal subway.
the station number is t03.
station layout
it has an island platform serving two tracks.
platform screen doors are provided.
a color is designated for each station on the tozai line,and the color for daigo station is pink.
on the ground level above the station,there is a bus terminal for the buses of keihan bus co.,ltd.(keihan buses).
the daigo community bus service,which uses this station as its terminal,covers every area of the community.
a counter for the sale of commuter tickets was initially provided when this station became operational,but the counter was closed when the line was extended up to rokujizo station.
an elevator from fujitec co.,ltd.,is in use.
station surroundings
there are many housing complexes around the station.
the east and west buildings of paseo daigoro
the daigo rail yard is located in the underground of the west building.
daigo-ji temple
kyoto outer loop expressway
fushimi ward office,daigo branch(the integrated daigo office)
daigo bus terminal
it's a bus terminal for keihan buses.
the daigo community buses,operated by yasaka bus co.,ltd.,sometimes wait here or pass this terminal stop,but they don't use it for passenger boarding or de-boarding.
route 2:in the direction of the ouke-danchi housing complex,daigo-tenno-ryo(the tomb of emperor daigo),kanshu-ji temple,fukakusa umadani-cho and takeda station-higashigushi(the east entrance to takeda station)(kyoto prefecture)
route 3:in the direction of kita-ogurisu and rokujizo station of keihan electric railway
route 6:in the direction of the ouke-danchi housing complex,momoyama-minamiguchi(south entrance)station,chushojima station,pulse plaza and takeda station-nishiguchi(the west entrance to takeda station)
route 83:in the direction of nishinoyama-danchi housing complex,kawata,gion and omiya station(kyoto prefecture)
route 83a:in the direction of nishinoyama-danchi housing complex,kawata,gion and karasuma station
route 84:in the direction of the nishinoyama-danchi housing complex,kawata,umamachi,gion and kawaramachi station(kyoto prefecture)
route 86:in the direction of the ouke-danchi housing complex,the daigo north-danchi housing complex,higashino,umano,gion and shijo kawaramachi(only two runs in the early evening)
route 86b:in the direction of the ouke-danchi housing complex,the daigo north-danchi housing complex,higashino,umano,gion and sanjo keihan
route 87a:in the direction of kita-ogurisu,the nishinoyama-danchi housing complex,kawata,umano,gion and shijo-karasuma(mornings only)
route 87b:in the direction of kita-ogurisu,the nishinoyama-danchi housing complex,kawata,umano gion and sanjo-keihan
route 88b:in the direction of kita-ogurisu,kurisuno,kiyozumiyaki-danchi housing complex,umano,gion and sanjo-keihan
additionally,the daigo station bus stop is located about 200 meters from this bus terminal.
history
october 12,1997:when the tozai line started operating between daigo and nijo,this station was established as a starting station on the line.
november 26,2004:when the tozai line extended its operation up to rokujizo station,this station ceased functioning as a terminal.
april 1,2007:pitapa became usable.
in the past,kyoto city bus daigo eigyosho(daigo business office)was located near to this station(the bus station was called daigo shako-mae(in front of the daigo rail yard),but its operation was discontinued when the tozai line started its operation,and now a condominium stands there(concurrently,kyoto city bus stopped operating in the yamashina and daigo areas).
adjacent stations
kyoto municipal subway
tozai line
ishida station(kyoto prefecture)(t02)-daigo station(t03)-ono station(kyoto prefecture)(t04)
