tanbaguchi station
tanbaguchi station,located in chudoji minami-machi,shimogyo ward,kyoto city,kyoto prefecture,is a stop on the sanin main line(sagano line)of the west japan railway company(jr west).
in addition to the sanin main line,the umekoji station-originated line for freight that branches from the tokaido main line(or the so-called sanin-connecting line)also uses this station(however,at present the trains regularly operated via this line are only a daily rust-removing one between kyoto sogountensho(the rail yard of jr west in kyoto)and saga-arashiyama station,so no passenger trains operate on the line).
the line is connected to the sanin main line on the kyoto side of the station.
in this station,icoca/j-through cards can be used(for interchangeably usable ic cards,refer to icoca).
this station is included among those in the 'kyoto city area' in the jr railway fare system of specific metropolitan and urban areas.
this station is located at the place where the sanin main line,running in the north-south direction along the suzaku-oji street dating from the heian-kyo era,crosses gojo-dori street(national route 9).
the name of the station comes from 'tanbaguchi,' one of the seven entrances to kyoto,or the so-called kyo-no-nanakuchi.
station layout
it is an elevated station where,with a platform serving two tracks,two trains going in opposite directions with each other can be served at the same time.
the ticket gates are provided at one location.
the station's operations are entrusted to jr west kotsu service,but counter services for passengers aren't provided in some of the early morning and late-night hours.
formerly,a flipping/flapping type of train information display board was provided at the ticket gates and one would be able to find,in the station names on the board,slight vestiges concerning former long-distance trains on the sanin line(because all trains in the direction of kyoto that stopped at this station were bound for kyoto,the display was fixed to 'kyoto' without being flapped),but the board was replaced with an electronic bulletin board in or around february 2008.
station surroundings
the central wholesale market of kyoto city
kyoto research park
the site of the shimabara-yukaku red-light district(also refer to the article on shimabara)
the matsumoto(kyoto prefecture)gojo store
gojo-dori street(national route 9)
senbon-dori street
though this station is the nearest to the umekoji steam locomotive museum,the museum is located approximately 800 m southward.
under the elevated structure on the north side of this station,there is a monument to the completion of the work of elevating the line between kyoto station and nijo station.
bus stops
kyoto research park-mae(in front of kyoto research park)
the bus stop isn't located in front of the station but is along the gojo-dori street,about two minutes on foot westward from the station.
kyoto city bus
route 32:bound for jisho-ji temple(via heian-jingu shrine)/for kyoto university of foreign studies(via nishikyogoku)
route 43:bound for karasuma station/for kuzebashi higashizume
route 73:bound for kyoto station/for rakusai bus terminal(via nishikyogoku)
route 75:bound for kyoto station(via horikawa gojo)/for toei uzumasa eigamura(toei uzumasa movie village)(via narabigaoka),yamagoe
route 80:bound for gion(via gojo-dori street),kawaramachi station(kyoto prefecture)/for kyoto university of foreign studies(via nishikyogoku)
keihan kyoto kotsu
route 21:bound for kyoto station/for katsurazaka-chuo(via shinbayashi center and minegado-cho)
route 27:bound for kyoto station and/or for katsurazaka-chuo(via kokudo kutsukake and nishi-katsurazaka)
gojo senbon
located at the same place as the stop for kyoto research park-mae(in front of kyoto research park)
kyoto bus
history
april 27,1897:operations commenced as a station of the kyoto electric railway.
august 1,1907:the kyoto electric railway was nationalized.
september 10,1918:the freight line that branched from the tokaido main line went into operation.
december 1,1927:a railway line dedicated for use by the kyoto central wholesale market went into operation.
march 16,1976:it became an elevated station,and its location was moved 500 m northward.
the freight-handling operation was transferred to kyoto-shijo station.
february 1,1984:kyoto-shijo station was abolished.
april 1,1987:due to the division and privatization of jnr,it became a station of jr west.
adjacent stations
west japan railway company(jr west)
sagano line(sanin main line)
rapid
no stops are made at this station.
local
kyoto station-tanbaguchi station-nijo station
the line branched from the tokaido main line(for a connection with the sanin line,with no passenger services provided).
umekoji station-tanbaguchi station
