kamikoma station
kamikoma station,located in kita-nodashiba,kamikoma,yamashiro-cho,kizugawa city in kyoto prefecture,is a stop on the nara line of west japan railway company(jr west).
station layout
it is an above-ground station with two platforms opposite each other and double tracks and at which trains can pass each other or pass others;platform 1 is the one nearer the station structure,and platform 2 is the opposite one crossing a passenger overpass.
as platform 1 is originally for kyoto bound trains and the thoroughfare,trains bound for nara also come in on platform 1 when they don't pass each other or pass others at this station.
it became unmanned when the nara line was electrified,and automated ticket vending machines are now installed;there are staff available at the window but only during certain hours of the day(from before noon till evening).
automated ticket gates of the simplified type are installed.
icoca and j-thru cards can be used.
pitapa(surutto kansai association)cards can be used,subject to mutual use with icoca cards.
ticket gates are of the simplified type and cannot process more than one j-thru card.
usage status
the number of passengers boarding at this station came to approximately 460 per day in fiscal year 2006.
(source:kyoto prefecture statistical report)
station surroundings
kizugawa city hall,yamashiro branch(old yamashiro town hall(kyoto prefecture))
kizugawa municipal kamikoma elementary school
yamashiro-cho post office
senkyo-ji temple
yamashiro-cho local collection museum
jonan takaragaike driving school
history
may 3,1902:the station was inaugurated as a nara railway station.
february 7,1905:the station became a kansai railway company station as a result of amalgamation.
october 1,1907:kansai railway company was nationalized under the railway nationalization act.
april 1,1987:the station became a jr west station due to the split privatization of japan national railways.
neighboring stations
west japan railway company(jr west)
■nara line
miyakoji rapid service/rapid service
nonstop
regional rapid service/local
tanakura station-kamikoma station-kizu station(kyoto prefecture)
