matsuo station(kyoto prefecture)
matsuo station,located in arashiyama miyanomae-cho,nishikyo ward,kyoto city,is a stop on the hankyu arashiyama line,which is operated by the hankyu railway.
station layout
it is an aboveground station with two separate platforms serving two tracks,matsuo station has a passing loop that enables trains running in opposing directions to pass each other.
the station is located between the western end of matsuo-bashi bridge and the southeastern corner of the crossing in front of matsuo-taisha shrine.
the station building(ticket gate)is in the direction of arashiyama station of the platform for trains bound for arashiyama,and is connected with a underground passage to the platform for trains bound for katsura on the opposite side.
platform numbers aren't assigned.
station surroundings
matsuo-bashi bridge(katsura-gawa river[yodo-gawa river system])
matsuo-taisha shrine
umenomiya-taisha shrine
saiho-ji temple
kegon-ji temple(kyoto city)
arashiyama east park
shijo-dori street
bus stop
in front of matsuo-taisha shrine
kyoto municipal transportation bureau
route 28:bound for daikaku-ji temple via arashiyama station/bound for kyoto station via shijo omiya
route 29:bound for rakusai bus terminal via kokudo nakayama/bound for shijo karasuma via matsuo-bashi bridge
kyoto bus co.,ltd.
passenger use
the number of passengers per day in fiscal year 2003 was approximately 2,701(according to the kyoto prefecture statistics report).
history
november 9,1928:the station went into operation as matsuo-jinja-mae station concurrently with the shinkeihan railway arashiyama line.
september 15,1930:it became a station of keihan electric railway as a result of amalgamation.
october 1,1943:it became a station of keihanshin express railway(the current hankyu railway)as a result of amalgamation.
january 9,1944:all the railway lines became single due to the need to supply materials.
it became a station where two trains could pass each other.
january 1,1948:its name was changed to matsuo station.
adjacent stations
hankyu railway
arashiyama line
kamikatsura station-matsuo station-arashiyama station(hankyu railway)
