mineyama station
mineyama station,located in mineyama-cho of tango city,kyoto prefecture,is a stop on the miyazu line of the kitakinki tango railway.
mineyama is well known as the birthplace of tango chirimen(silk crepe).
it is also a well-known fact that kyoto prefectural mineyama high school,the school at which former nankai hawks catcher katsuya nomura was at one time enrolled,is located in this area.
station layout
it is an over-track station with two platforms:one with the track on one side only and the other an island-type platform with tracks on both sides(one of which is the aforesaid track),for a total of three tracks.
given mineyama's distinction as the birthplace of tango chirimen,the station building is designed to depict a weaving machine.
station surroundings
kyotango city hall(old mineyama-cho town hall)
mineyama-sugitani post office
kyoto hokuto shinkin bank mineyama branch,mineyama-chuo branch
kyoto bank mineyama branch
kyoto prefectural mineyama high school
nippon rent-a-car service,inc.
bus service
tango kairiku kotsu co.,ltd.
for:mizotani(yasaka-byoin-mae(yasaka hospital)),amino-eki-mae(amino station),taiza
for kami-miyazu,yosanoumi hospital
for kumihama station
taxi service
mineyama taxi
tanwa taxi
usage status
the number of passengers boarding at this station came to approximately 370 per day in fiscal year 2006.
(source:kyoto prefecture statistical report)
history
november 3,1925:the station was inaugurated consequent upon the extension of the japan national railway's mineyama line to this station.
december 25,1926:the mineyama-amino section of japan national railways minetoyo line commenced operations.
august 10,1932:the mineyama and minetoyo lines were jointly renamed the miyazu line.
april 1,1987:the station became a jr west station due to the split privatization of japan national railways.
april 1,1990:the station became a station of kitakinki tango railway incidental to the transfer of control of miyazu line to it.
neighboring stations
kitakinki tango railway
miyazu line
tango-omiya station-mineyama station-amino station
