sanjo-dori street
sanjo-dori street is one of the major east-west streets in kyoto city,kyoto prefecture.
it corresponds to sanjo-oji street in heiankyo.
the sanjo-ohashi bridge over the kamo-gawa river(yodo-gawa water system)was the end point of the tokaido gojusan-tsugi(fifty-three stages in tokaido road)of the tokaido.
overview
sanjo-dori street runs east to west from shinomiya in yamashina ward to(togetukyo bridge)arashiyama in ukyo ward.
the entry and exit points of the tokaido in kyo was called 'awataguchi,' which is one of the seven gates of kyoto,and the nearby awata-jinja shrine was worshiped as a 'god of journeys.'
in yamashina ward,both the old tokaido and the old national highway route no.1,the present-day shinomiya-yotsuzuka-sen kyoto fudo 143 go(kyoto prefectural road 143),are called sanjo-dori street.
(the old tokaido is often called old sanjo-dori.street too.)
both streets join on the yamashina ward side of hinoka-toge,pass through keage and cross the kamo-gawa river by the sanjo-ohashi bridge.
the road that extended as the tokaido is called sanjo-kaido road,particularly in yamashina ward.
froawaramachi-dori street to teramachi-dori street,sanjo-dori street is a shopping arcade known as sanjo meitengai shopping street.
between teramachi-dori street and karasuma-dori street,it is now a narrow one-way street,but many modern-era architectural structures are found along it,such as the old kyoto branch,bank of japan(present museum of kyoto annex)and the nakagyo post office,because it was the main street in the meiji period.
when the kamigyo and simogyo wards were established under gun-ku-cho-son henseiho(act for the alignment of local government systems),sanjo-dori street was used as the boundary between the two wards;kamigyo ward was defined as being north of it,and shimogyo ward was defined as being south of it.
a road-origin marker of kyoto city can still be seen at the crossing with karasuma-dori street.
between horikawa-dori street and senbon-dori street,the street again becomes the meitengai shopping street arcade.
west of senbon-dori street it's a highway,nijoteishajo-arashiyama-sen kyoto fudo 112 go(kyoto prefectural road 112).
in the westward direction,through the section sharing lanes with the arashiyama main line,keifuku electric railroad from nishioji-dori street to kadonoji-dori street,it turns northwest,merges with old nijo-dori street(taishimichi(the road that prince shotoku took)),runs west again,passes through uzumasa(koryujimae)and katabiranotsuji,merges with fushihara-dori street on the left bank of the katsura-gawa river(yodo-gawa water system)and leads to arashiyama(togetukyo bridge).
around arashiyama,chronic traffic congestion occurs during tourist seasons.
the section between the eastern end of sanjo-ohashi higashizume and karasuma-dori street is designated as a public non-smoking area.
streetcar
road widening has its limitations,because it has been a main street since the early meiji era.
however,in the eastern and western suburbs the road was widened as a main highway and the streetcar started running on it.
in the east,the streetcar of the keihan keishin line of keihan electric railway ran from the sanjo-ohashi bridge(the location of the station has changed slightly)to keage and from the west side of hinoka to misasagi,sharing a traffic lane.
today the tozai line of kyoto municipal subway/kyoto city subway takes roughly the same route.
in the west,the streetcar of the arashiyama main line,keifuku electric railroad,commonly known as randen,still runs from nishioji-dori street to kadonoji-dori street,sharing a traffic lane.
crossing roads
east is upper,and south is lower.
north is to the left,and south is to the right.
roads are operated by the local municipalities unless otherwise indicated.
traffic volume
fiscal year 2005 average weekday 24-hour traffic volume(statistical)(road traffic census)
hinoka-asadacho,yamashina ward:34,576
sainshunei-cho,ukyo ward:17,432
main facilities along the street
kyoto pharmaceutical university
biwako sosui(channel)
keage purification plant,kyoto city waterworks bureau
miyako hotels&resorts
nanzen-ji temple
the statue of hikokuro takayama viewing and bowing the knee to the imperial palace
sanjo-keihan
sanjo-ohashi bridge(kamo-gawa river(yoda-gawa water system))
the museum of kyoto
the old kyoto branch,bank of japan is an example of architecture from the meiji period(now used as the museum of kyoto annex).
only the outer appearance of meiji architecture has been preserved at the nakagyo post office.
kyoto office,ntt west
shin-puh-kan(a commercial complex registered as a tangible cultural property of kyoto city)*next to ntt in the north
kyoto chuo branch,mizuho bank
the old kyoto branch,daichi bank(a reconstructed building)is another example of architecture from the meiji period.
sanjo meitengai shopping street
suzaku campus of ritsumeikan asia pacific university
headquarters office,shimadzu corporation
kyoto uzumasa eigamura(toei movie land)
koryu-ji temple
ukyo ward office,kyoto city
ukyo police station
kyoto saga university of arts
kyoto-nishi post office
arashiyama
zuisen-ji temple
kyoto subway line,tozai line:uzumasa-tenjingawa station-sanjo-keihan station-higashiyama station(kyoto prefecture)-keage station-misasagi station
keihan oto line,and keihan main line,keihan electric railway:sanjo station(kyoto prefecture)
arashiyama main line,keifuku electric railroad:katabiranotsuji station-uzumasa-koryuji station-kaikonoyashiro station-randen-tenjingawa station-yamanouchi station(kyoto prefecture)-nishiojisanjo station
