takenouchi-kaido road
the 26-kilometer takenouchi-kaido road is a kaido(road)that heads east for the area around nagao-jinja shrine in katsuragi city,nara prefecture from sakai city,osaka prefecture through the south foot of mt.nijo-zan(nara prefexture and osaka prefecture)and takenouchi pass.
most section of the road between shiratori crossing in habikino city and takenouchi settlement in katsuragi city is designated as national route 166.
establishment and history
according to the article about emperor suiko in 613 recorded in the "nihonshoki" (chronicles of japan),the takenouchi-kaido road was a japan's oldest 'kando' (a road that is improved,managed,and maintained by the japanese nation)recorded as 'a ooji(road)was laid out from nanba to the capital(asuka).'
the most of current takenouchi-kaido road overlaps with the kando in the period of emperor suiko.
the east side of the road is connected to the kando yokooji that runs east and west of the south of the nara basin.
the road was called tajihi-michi road.
it seems it was because the road ran across tajihino.
in the article about emperor tenmu,on august 2,672,it is written that 'when look down west at dawn,people were coming to the war from both roads of otsu and tajihi.'
these roads were used for the jinshin war and are considered to be nagao-kaido road and the takenouchi-kaido road.
the takenouchi-kaido road stretches west to east,running near the center between the furuichi burial mounds and the mozu burial mounds.
it also considered being a road connecting these two burial mounds.
it was constructed after the nagao-kaido road.
also,if the road stretches west and east in a linear manner,it connects to the rounded part of the south of the konda gobyoyama tumulus,and front part of the south east of the oyama tumulus.
therefore,these large burial mounds were constructed on line of north latitude on a map.
as mentioned above,the road was maintained as a kando in the early seventh century.
from the fourth to fifth century,however,there are a number of remains such as imperial mausoleums and burial mounds in the west foot of mt.nijo-zan,so it is considered that there were already many people passersby.
in the asuka period,kenzuishi(a japanese envoy to sui dynasty china)and priests who studied abroad traveled along the road to bring culture from the continent including chinese and korean cultures,which served as the foundation of asuka culture.
in the medieval period,the takenouchi-kaido road continued as a part of the ise-kaido road and now the national route 166 runs there.
therefore,the takenouchi-kaido road is used as a kaido from the asuka period until now.
in the edo period,basho matsuo lived temporary in takenouchi settlement along the road.
currently,there is basho's watayumi tsuka(monument engraved waka poem)and maintained as a park.
takenouchi-kaido road route(facilities,etc.along the road)
(described from the west side)
sakai city
around the city hall-enokimoto-machi(bisected by nishi koya-kaido road)-nakamozu kensyajo,osaka municipal transportation bureau-crosses with tokihama-sen road-kanaoka village(osaka prefecture)(kanaoka-jinja shrine)-crosses diagonally with osaka prefectural road 2,osaka-chuo-kanjo-sen belt line(merge onto the naniwa taido around the area)-along the south of oizumi ryokuchi park-noto-cho(crosses with shimo koya-kaido road)-the nishiyoke-gawa river(nishiyoke-bashi bridge)-
matsubara city
oka-cho(intersection of tannan kita crossing and national route 309)-oka(crosses with tannan higashi crossing and naka koya-kaido road)-tatsube(tatsube nishi and tatsube higashi crossing and osaka-chuo-kanjo-sen belt line)-
habikino city
no(in front of no community center)-higashiyoke-gawa river(ise-bashi bridge)-in front of toyokawa hospital-around bokeyama tumulus(the imperial mausoleum of emperor ninken)-karusato 1 cho-me intersection-shiratori crossing(intersection of national route 170)-in front of furuichi station(osaka prefecture)-(national route 166)-in front of kaminotaishi station-
taishi-cho,minami kawachi-gun(osaka prefecture)
rokumaibashi crossing(near taishi-cho town office)-(kyu-kaido[old-kaido road])-takenouchi-kaido road historical museum-kazehana-bashi bridge higashizume crossing(near michi no eki[a roadside rest area with a market of local products for tourists],chikatsu asuka no sato taishi)-takenouchi pass
katsuragi city
around takamine-jinja shrine-(kyu-kaido,inside takenouchi settlement)-watayumi tsuka,historic site of basho-south of takenouchi crossing-nagao-kaido road intersection-nagao-jinja shrine-nagao crossing(beyond the area,it overlaps yokooji road)
