kawaramachi-dori street
kawaramachi-dori street is one of the streets located in kyoto city.
it runs north-south.
it is located outside of heian-kyo.
it runs as if it were following the east outer edge of the construction of odoi fortress,built by hideyoshi toyotomi.
it was opened during the early edo period when the downtown expanded to the kamo-gawa river(yodo-gawa river system).
it extends from aoibashi-nishizume in the north to jujo-dori street in the south.
north from aoibashi-nishizume,the street has a different name:shimogamo-hon-dori street.
the area along the street between sanjo-dori street and shijo-dori street is kyoto's central shopping and entertainment district,having pedestrian paths covered by an arcade.
the street south of shijo-dori street runs north-northeast and then south-southwest in parallel with the kamo-gawa river.
thus it intersects teramachi-dori street and gokomachi-dori street,which run completely north-south.
the street between oike-dori street and shijo-dori street is a public nonsmoking area.
the kawaramachi line of kyoto city trams ran north from shiokoji-dori street until 1978.
in the gion festival,yamahoko junko(procession of gion festival floats)goes along this street north from shijo-dori street to oike-dori street.
crossing roads
roads are operated by local municipalities unless otherwise specified.
traffic volume
fiscal year 2005 average weekday 24-hour traffic volume(statistics)(road traffic census)
tominaga-cho,takatsuji agaru,kawaramachi-dori,shimogyo ward-28,732
main facilities along the street
kitamura museum,imadegawa-dori sagaru(to the south of imadegawa-dori street),higashi iru(to the east)
honzen-ji temple,hirokoji-dori(kyoto city)agaru(to the north of hirokoji-dori street)(the front of the temple is the opposite side on teramachi-dori street)
shojokein temple,hirokoji agaru(to the north of hirokoji)(the front of the temple is the opposite side on teramachi-dori street)
rozan-ji temple,hirokoji agaru(to the north of hirokoji)(the entrance of the temple is the opposite side on teramachi-dori street)
kyoto prefectural university of medicine and hospital,hirokoji agaru(to the north of hirokoji)
kyoto branch,bank of japan,nijo-dori kado(corner of nijo-dori street)
kyoto city municipal government,northwest corner of oike-dori street
zest oike(underground shopping arcade),oike-dori street
kyoto hotel,northeast corner of oike-dori street
tozai line of the kyoto municipal subway-kyoto shiyakusho-mae station underground of oike-dori street
honno-ji temple,oike sagaru(to the south of oike)(back door only)
(the front of the temple is the opposite side on teramachi-dori street.)
kyoto takashimaya,southwest corner of shijo-dori street
hankyu hanshin department store,southeast corner of shijo-dori street
hankyu kyoto main line of hankyu corporation-kawaramachi station(kyoto prefecture)underground of shijo-dori street
hitomachi-koryukan,kyoto,kaminokuchi agaru(to the north of kaminokuchi)
shoseien garden(kikokutei),from kami-juzuyamachi-dori street to shimo-juzuyamachi-dori street(the entrance is the opposite side on ainomachi-dori street).
