chuo-do daytime express kyoto-go(chuo-do road daytime express bound for kyoto)
chuo-do daytime express kyoto-go is a daytime express bus service which connects tokyo and kyoto city,kyoto prefecture.
the service code is 020xx.
tokai-do daytime express kyoto-go,established later than chuo-do daytime express,is also mentioned in this article.
summary
on december 1,2001 jr bus kanto co.,ltd.and west japan jr bus company commenced operations of tokai-do daytime express osaka-go,connecting tokyo station and osaka station via tomei and meishin expressways.
with the success of this express service,the chuo-do daytime express kyoto-go followed and from the time the route started operating there was a strong demand from passengers for a daytime express service to kyoto.
consequently on march 10,2002 the two companies set up the twice daily chuo-do daytime express kyoto-go(as the second 'daytime express' service)which passed through chuo expressway and had its terminal at shinjuku station in tokyo.
chuo-do daytime express kyoto-go was well-received from the very start of operations.
among other things passengers mentioned that 'you can enjoy a scenic view,' and around holiday periods the bus often had a high occupancy(adapted from an interview in the 74th issue of the magazine "busrama international" with somebody connected to jr bus kanto company).
later,on july 18,2003,tokai-do daytime express kyoto-go began operating two round trips daily.
its tokyo terminal was located in tokyo station and the buses traveled via tomei expressway.
although there are more bus stops than previously for these two daytime express buses bound for kyoto,the number of daily services remains unchanged at two a day on both routes.
on january 16,2008 the arrival and departure terminals for chuo-do daytime express kyoto-go changed to tokyo station.
route
chuo-do daytime express kyoto-go
yaesu minami exit,tokyo station bus stop(nihonbashi exit for arriving buses)-shin minami exit,jr highway bus stop in shinjuku station-mitaka bus stop-jindaiji bus stop-fuchu bus stop-hino bus stop-nakatsugawa interchange-yokaichi bus stop-karasumadori exit,kyoto station
tokai-do daytime express kyoto-go
yaesu minami exit,tokyo station(nihonbashi exit for arriving buses)-shin minami exit,shinjuku station-ikejiriohashi station(a stop only for inbound buses)-mukaigaoka bus stop-eda bus stop-yamato bus stop-atsugi bus stop-gotenba bus stop-fuji bus stop-shizuoka bus stop-hamamatsukita bus stop-tsuchiyama service area-karasuma exit,kyoto station
time required
as of december 19,2008
chuo-do daytime express kyoto-go:tokyo station-shinjuku station-kyoto station outbound 8 hours 31 minutes;inbound 8 hours 41 minutes
tokai-do daytime express kyoto-go:tokyo station-kyoto station outbound 8 hours 5 minutes;inbound 8 hours 3 minutes
number of services
chuo-do daytime express kyoto-go:two round trips a day
tokai-do daytime express kyoto-go:two round trips a day
history
march 10,2002:chuo-do daytime express kyoto-go service commenced operations.
july 18,2003:tokai-do daytime express kyoto-go service commenced operations.
july 16,2004:a bus stop(chuo-do jindaiji)was added to chuo-do daytime express kyoto-go service.
january 16,2008:the arrival and departure terminal for chuo-do daytime express kyoto-go service changed to tokyo station via shinjuku station.
april 1,2008:female-only seats were introduced in each vehicle.
july 1,2008:tokai-do daytime express kyoto-go changed its route to go via shin meishin expressway to shorten the travelling time.
also,tsuchiyama bus stop was added.
at the same time the route of the tokai-do daytime express kyoto-go service changed to go via shinjuku station(inbound buses stopping at ikejiriohashi).
vehicles used
a double-decker vehicle equipped with a toilet and with the configuration of 3 separate seats per row.
this vehicle is also used as the overnight 'dream-go' (highway)bus.
tokai-do daytime express kyoto-go service uses vehicles which belong to jr bus kanto for inbound journeys,and west jr bus company for outbound journeys.
