mt.hiei driveway
mt.hiei driveway is a driveway which is managed by hieizan jidosha kabushikigaisha(details are in the page which detailes the keihan group)which is a subsidiary of keihan electric railway that is located at mt.hiei in otsu city,shiga prefecture.
this section also describes the okuhiei driveway.
mt.hiei driveway is a toll road approximately 8.1 km long,which connects tanotani pass in otsu city,shiga prefecture to enryaku-ji temple(konpon-chudo hall)and the top of mt.hiei.
when driving around the mountainside of mt.hiei,one can see the whole of otsu city and the southern part of lake biwa on the way to 'yumemigaoka.'
also there is the hotel 'l'hotel de hiei' which is under the keihan group as well.
oku hiei driveway is a toll road approximately 11.8 km long,which connects konpon-chudo hall that is at the end of the mt.hiei driveway to ogi,otsu city via enryaku-ji temple west building(shaka-do hall)to yokawa chu-do hall.
on the way,there is a 'hieizan hodo restaurant.'
the keihan bus and kyoto bus operate a mt.hiei drive bus from otsu city and the kyoto city area,with a mt.hiei shuttle bus also operating along the same route.all day passes to mt.hiei are also sold here.
summary
mt.hiei driveway
section
tanotani pass tollgate-(yumemigaoka)-(l'hotel de hiei)-checkpoint in front of the hotel-(the crossing point to the top to the mt.hiei)-enryaku-ji temple east building
(the crossing point at the top of mt.hiei)-the top of mt.hiei
distance-approximately 8.1 km
speed limit-
opening date-april 18,1958
management company-hieizan jidosha kabushikigaisha
oku hiei driveway
section
enryaku-ji temple east building-(enryaku-ji temple west building)-nishitani checkpoint-(enryaku-ji temple west building)-(hieizan hodo restaurant)-(enryaku-ji temple yokawa chu-do hall)-ogi tollgate
distance-approximately 11.82 km
speed limit-40km/h
opening date-may 1,1966
management company-oku hiei sankei jidosha kabushikigaisha
main roadside facilities
mt.hiei driveway
yumemigaoka
hotel 'l'hotel de hiei'
the top of mt.hiei
museum 'garden museum hiei'
cosmos garden
enryaku-ji temple east building
oku hiei driveway
enryaku-ji temple west building
hieizan hodo restaurant
enryaku-ji temple yokawa chu-do hall
toll systems
the rate is determined by sections and type of car as shown below(see details in the official website).
tanotani pass tollgate-l'hotel de hiei(round-trip)
tanotani pass tollgate-the top of mt.hiei/enryaku-ji temple east building(round-trip)
tanotani pass tollgate-enryaku-ji temple yokawa parking(round-trip)
ogi tollgate-the top of mt.hiei/enryaku-ji temple east building(round-trip)
tanotani pass tollgate-ogi tollgate(one-way)
tanotani pass tollgate-enryaku-ji temple yokawa parking-the top of mt.hiei/enryaku-ji temple east building-ogi tollgate
cross roads
kyoto/shiga prefectural road 30 shimogamo-otsu line(yamanaka-goe)
shiga prefectural road 315 ogi-ogoto line-connects to kosei road and national road 161,etc.
others
closed outside of business hours.
motorcycles under 125 cc,bicycles and pedesterians are not allows.
there are almost no road lights on the road.
sometimes,wild animals can be seen on the raod.
