omiya-dori street
the omiya-dori street is one of the major streets running north-south in kyoto city.
it corresponds to the omiya-oji street of heiankyo.
it runs from the takedonokita-dori street in the north to the kuzebashi-dori street in the south.
nijo-jo castle interrupts the street between the takeyamachi-dori street and the oshikoji-dori street.
the extension of the shoshidai(local governor)residence interrupted the street between the marutamachi-dori street and the takeyamachi-dori street.
today's omiya-dori street between shijo-dori street and jujo-dori street is an arterial highway,but the section north of shijo omiya is narrower.
north of shijo omiya,the primary highway goes to senbon-sanjo of senbon-dori street via the koin-dori street,a diagonal road uncommon in kyoto.
this is because the north-south line of kyoto municipal streetcar,omiya-sen and senbon-sen(abolished in 1972)takes this route.
the street between kamidachiuri-dori street and motoseiganji-dori street runs through the central area of the nishijin brocade weaving or textile industry.
name origin
the street is said to have been given the name of 'omiya' because it borders the eastern edge of dai-dairi(place of the imperial palace and government offices)(incidentally the street bordering the west edge of dai-dairi was named nishiomiya-oji street),but the former name of kuga-jinja shrine of shikinaisha(shrine listed in engishiki laws),located directly north of the street in shichiku-shimotakedono-cho,kita ward,was 'omiya.'
this district was once named 'omiyago' and is said to be the first place where kamozoku(people those lived kyoto basin to farm in yayoi are)settled in.
there is an explanation that kamo-wakeikazuchi-jinja shrine originated here.(a ship crossing the river from kamigamo-jinja shrine to the right bank was once called omiya ferry.)
therefore 'omiya' may have existed before the construction of heiankyo,and it may not be wrong that the name of 'omiya-dori' comes from this shrine.
or 'omiya' can serve as the datum line for the construction of heiankyo.
crossing streets
described below is the primary highway section from sijo-omiya.
roads unless specified are operated by local municipalities.
in addition,today's omiya-dori street is extended southward from the kuzebashi-dori street,until crossing the kamogawa river and intersecting with the abura-no-koji dori street at the southern bank of the river near kamitoba,fushimi ward.
main facilities along the street
kyoto interdisciplinary institute of community medicine hospital,kitaoji
nishijin public job stabilization office,nakadachiuri-dori street
nijo-jo castle,from takeyamachi to oshi-koji street(the entrance faces the horikawa-dori street.)
shinsenen,oike-dori nishi iru
nijojinya-ato(remains of nijo-jinya)(residence of ogawa family),anegakoji agaru(to the north of anegakoji),
hankyu kyoto main line-omiya station(kyoto prefecture)
keifuku electric railroad-shijo-omiya station
mibu-dera temple
ikubun junior high school,ayanokoji sagaru(to the south of ayanokoji)
kyoto municipal junpu elementary school,hanayacho-dori higashi-iru
nishi honganji temple(head temple of jodo shinshu sect,honganji-ha buddhist),from hanayacho to kita-koji(the front faces the opposite horikawa-dori street)
ryukoku university heian junior high school and high school,kita-koji street
umekoji park,shiokoji-dori street
ryukoku university omiya campus,shichijo-dori agaru(to the north of shichijo-dori)
to-ji temple,(kyo-gokoku-ji temple)from hachijo to kujo
omiya-ohashi bridge(kamo-gawa river(yodo-gawa water system))
kodai yuzen-en and gallery
kefukigusa(haiku book)(compiled by shigeyori matsue in 1645)describes many specialties of kyoto in the early edo period.
the section of yamashiro-no-kuni,which includes kyoto,lists products of every region according to the street of kyo(capital)from north to south and from east to west.
(it reveals that there were a wide variety of craftsmen across many different fields and products totaling over 300 kinds in the kyo.)
omiya-dori street,grapes(good harvests there)
in those days the grapes grown in the district along the omiya-dori street were originally called omiya grape.
after an investigation into the hideyoshi-built jurakudai-ato(remains of jurakudai)and fushimi-jo castle discovered that omiya grape vine were grown using a trellis,such grapes produced on a trellis began to be called juraku budo grape.
grape vine trellis,a folding screen of the momoyama period,depicts the design of the grape vine trellis.
