abura-no-koji dori street
abura-no-koji dori street is one of the major north-south streets of kyoto city.
it corresponds to abura-no-koji street of heian-kyo.
it starts from takedonominami-dori street in the north and stretches southward.
it is interrupted between shimei-dori street and kamidachiuri-dori street.
north of the tokaido main line
the street north of shimei-dori street passes through a residential area,which was created under a land-adjustment project,west of shinmachi-dori street and east of horikawa-dori street.
the interrupted section between shimei-dori street and kamidachiuri-dori street looks as if abura-no-koji dori street continues,because ogawa-dori street,which runs one block east,deviates to the west.
the street south of kamidachiuri-dori street is a narrow,one-way northbound traffic,running one block east of horikawa-dori street and west of ogawa-dori street.
it merges with horikawa-dori street at the north side of the railway bridge of the tokaido main line.
south from the tokaido main line
after the merging point just north of the railway bridge of the tokaido main line,it forms a highway that continues from horikawa-dori street,leading to the kyoto-sotokanjo-sen belt line.
hanshin expressway route 8 kyoto line runs over it.
the section south of the intersection with the kyoto-sotokanjo-sen belt line is national route 1 daini-keihan-doro bypass,which is connected to daini-keihan-doro bypass at kumiyama town,kuse-gun.
the opening of kyoto minami ohashi bridge and rakunan road has reduced the chronic congestion of national route 1.
the opening of the kyoto-daini-soto-kanjo-doro belt line around the same time and the access route to the keiji bypass and meishin expressway have also had multiple strong effects on the improvement of traffic conditions around neighboring areas.
some call this section 'shin abura-no-koji-dori street' (new abura-no-koji dori street)because it is an extension of the traditional abura-no-koji dori street.
others call the section(particularly around fushimi ward) 'shin-horikawa-dori' (new horikawa-dori),and many shops refer to themselves as 'shin-horikawa branches.'
crossing roads
roads are operated by local municipalities unless otherwise specified.
major facilities along the streets
kyoto-shi kita(kyoto city north)youth action center,goshodenkami-dori street
shiramine-jingu shrine,imadegawa kado(corner of imadegawa)
konishi ribbon co.,ltd,motoseiganji sagaru(to the south of motoseiganji)
raku museum,nakadachiuri agaru(to the north of nakadachiuri)
kyoto municipal horikawa high school,nishikikoji-dori street
remains of honno-ji temple,from takoyakushi-dori street to nishikikoji-dori street
kyoto station
otabijo(temporary shrine)of fushimi inari taisha shrine,toji-dori street
toji station,kujo-dori street
kyoto minami ohashi bridge(kamo-gawa river(yodo-gawa river system))
the head office of kyocera corporation
the head office of murata machinery,ltd.
pulse plaza(kyoto prefectural trade fair hall)
the fushimi police station of kyoto police,
shimotoba park
misu park
