higashioji-dori street
higashioji-dori street is one of the major north-south streets in kyoto city.
it is now recognized as the north-south arterial street that forms the eastern border of the current downtown,replacing teramachi-dori street(once called higasikyogoku-oji street)as the eastern end of heiankyo.
higashioji-dori street is also known as higashiyama-dori street,so its crossings and bus stops were given names starting with 'higashiyama,' following the practice of the days when kyoto city trams ran on the street.
also,beside higashioji-dori street,kyoto city has other arterial roads having "oji" in their names,such as kitaoji-dori street,nishioji-dori street and kadonoji-dori street;however,they didn't exist until the meiji period but were built in the modern age or later.
in the north,the street ends at kitayama-dori street;in the south it goes to tofuku-ji temple,where it aligns and connects with kujo-dori street.
from takano,the crossing with kitaoji-dori street to tofuku-ji temple,the higashiyama line of kyoto city trams once ran southward.
in the north from takano to kitayama-dori street,where the tram didn't run,the street is narrower.
unlike other arterial streets in kyoto city,higashioji-dori street has many ups and downs around the area from gion to gojozaka..
heavy traffic congestion occurs during tourist seasons,particularly around kiyomizu-michi and gion.
although the street is a major route for buses connecting kyoto station and major tourist spots,traffic congestion often causes even the buses to be delayed.
for the past several years,measures have been taken to reduce congestion during the autumn tourist season.
crossing roads
north is upper,and south is lower.
west is to the left,and east is to the right.
roads are operated by local municipalities unless otherwise specified.
main facilities along the street
from the north
shugakuin station
mototanaka station
sakyo healthcare center,kyoto city
the kyoto college of graduate studies for informatics
hyakumanben crossing
kyoto university
sakyo ward office,kyoto city
higashiyama station(kyoto prefecture)
chionin
yasaka-jinja shrine
gion
kiyomizu-dera temple
nishiotani honbyo mausoleum(otani honbyo mausoleum of hongan-ji temple,of the honganji group of the jodoshin-shu sect)
rokuharamitsu-ji temple
chishakuin
kyoto national museum
tofuku-ji temple
