kyoto jukan jidoshado expressway
kyoto jukan jidoshado expressway,which is approximately 100 km long,is an arterial high-standard highway(national highway 478)extending from kumiyama town,kuse-gun,kyoto prefecture to miyazu city,kyoto prefecture.
the expressway runs through the long,narrow kyoto prefecture from north to south,contributing to enhanced regional cooperation between north and south and the promotion of regional activation,and acts as a belt line in the southern urban areas of kyoto city,which otherwise lack adequate high-standard road networks.
kyoto governor describes this expressway as "kyoto no sebone," or the backbone of kyoto.
until now,three sections have opened in three different areas:on the side of the starting point,around the middle,and on the side of the terminal.the section on the side of the staring point has opened under the name "keiji bypass" instead of "jukan jidoshado expressway."
when people say "kyoto jukan jidoshado expressway," many may be referring only to the kyoto tanba road.
its roadway will not end at the miyazu-amanohashidate interchange but will extend to the tottori jidoshado expressway and the tottori interchange of the sanin jidoshado expressway as a local high-standard highway,being the tottori toyoka miyazu jidosha expressway.
the section between the kumiyamayodo interchange and the oyamazaki junction/interchange is a national expressway on which a minimum speed limit is enforced;consequently,small and compact vehicles are prohibited.
the etc(electronic toll collection)system has not been introduced at the miyazu-amanohashidate or maizuru-oe interchanges of ayabe miyatsu road,,but west nippon expressway company,ltd.,was scheduled to start the etc service in fiscal year 2008 at interchanges including the kyotanba-wachi interchange,which would then be opened.
accordingly,the equipment for etc is now being installed at the miyazu-amanohashidate interchange,as well as at the maizuru-oe interchange of the ayabe miyatsu road,
and special-purpose vehicles exceeding 2.5 m in width are banned from the road.
toll road section and toll-free section
toll road sections(the ayabe miyatsu road is operated by kyoto prefectural road public corporation and others are operated by west nippon expressway corporation limited)
kumiyama ic-oyamazaki jct/ic(kyoto-daini-soto-kanjo-doro belt line)
kutsukake ic-tanba ic(kyoto tanba road)
ayabe jct-miyatsu ic(ayabe miyazu road)
toll-free sections(operated by the ministry of land,infrastructure,transport and tourism)
ayabe-ankokuji ic-ayabe jct(tanba ayabe road)
now there is no exit between the ayabekita tollgate(ayabe junction)and the ayabe ankokuji tollgate,so drivers aren't allowed to run only toll-free sections.
the kyoto prefectural road public corporation will operate the section between the kyotanba-wachi interchange and the ayabe ankokuji interchange,which was scheduled to open in the period from summer to autumn of 2008,when the corporation would take responsibility for the section between the ayabe ankokuji interchange and the ayabe junction,and on this occasion the current toll-free section would become a toll road.
consequently,the current ayabekita toll barrier(ayabe junction)will be replaced by the ayabe ankokuji tollbooth.
(the ayabe ankokuji interchange has no tollbooth,but when the new tollbooth is built at the interchange the current barrier gate will be removed.)
the current ayabekita toll barrier(ayabe junction)is of a prefabricated structure intended specifically for temporary use.
a project for the construction of the section between the tanba and kyotanba-wachi interchanges is being promoted by the ministry of land,infrastructure,transport and tourism for opening in 2014,but to date the operator has not been indicated.
history
february 17,1988:opening of the national highway 9 oinosaka-kameoka road(kutsukake ic-kameoka ic)as a toll road,and the national highway 9 kameoka road(kameoka ic-chiyokawa ic)as a temporarily toll-free road.
may 6,1993:the designation of national highway 9 was changed to national highway 478,kutsukake ic-chiyokawa ic.
september 9,1993:toll-road service started on the kameoka ic-chiyokawa ic section.
april 27,1996:the chiyokawa ic-tanba ic section(yagi-sonobe road)opened.
march 8,1998:a connection was established to the maizuru expressway(the present maizuru wakasa expressway)through the opening of the ayabe junction-maizuru-oe interchange(temporary two-lane,two-way traffic).
march 2,2003:the maizuru-oe ic-miyazu-amanohashidate ic(temporary two-lane,two-way traffic)was opened.
march 27,2003:the ayabe ankokuji ic-ayabe jct(temporary two-lane,two-way traffic)was opened.
december 24,2003:the oyamazaki ic opened.
on october 1,2005:due to the privatization of four highway public corporations the transfer of ownership to japan expressway holding and the debt repayment and agency took place,and the management was tranferred to west nippon expressway company limited
list of interchanges and facilities
sections having interchanges with a highlight in green have been made available.
the facilities with a highlight in ash have not been established or completed.
tentative names are used for the sections that haven't yet opened.
bs(bus stop)with symbols ○/● is used for buses that are in service and ◆ is used for buses that are out of service.
the absence of a symbol means bus stops aren't available.
numbers in parentheses are for the interchanges of other expressways.
numbers in angular parentheses are for the interchanges yet to be set.
(sapa having a smart interchange set on a trial basisis shown in italic font.the term "smart ic" refers to smart interchanges that have been established on a permanent basis.)
the abbreviations here stand for the following words:
ic:interchange;jct:junction terminal;sa:service area;pa:parking area;tb:toll barrier;tn:tunnel
kumiyama jct-kumiyamayodo ic:national highway 478 kyoto-daini-soto-doro belt line(keiji bypass)
kumiyamayodo ic-oyamazaki jct/ic:reconstructed section of chuo-jidosha-do expressway nishinomiya line(kyoto-daini-soto-doro belt line(keiji bypass))
oyamazaki jct/ic-kutsukake ic(oe ic):national highway 478 kyoto-daini-soto-doro belt line
kutsukake ic(oe ic)-tanba ic:national highway 478 kyoto-tanba road
tanba ic-ayabe jct:national highway 478 ayabe road
ayabe jct-miyatsu amanohashidate ic:national highway 478 ayabe miyatsu road
maintenance management
west nippon expressway company limited
entire keiji bypass:west nippon expressway company limited,kansai branch,ibaraki office
(the sections managed by the ibaraki office include meishin highway kyoto higashi ic-suita jc,entire daini-keihan-doro bypass,kyoto prefecture area keinawa jidoshado expressway.)
kutsukake ic(oe ic)-tanba ic:kansai branch,kyoto tanba road office
(the kyoto tanba office manages only this section.)
kyoto prefectural road public corporation
ayabekita tb-ayabe jct:ayabe miyatsu road office
(the ayabe miyatsu road office manages only this section.)
ministry of land,infrastructure,transport and tourism
ayabe-ankokuji ic-ayabekita tb:kinki regional development bureau,fukuchiyama office of rivers and national highways,ayabe national highway maintenance branch office
main tunnels
shin oinosaka tunnel
amaokayama tunnel
shinkannon tunnel
oeyama tunnel
scheduled year of opening
kyotanba-wachi ic-ayabe ankokuji ic:summer or autumn 2008
oyamazaki jct-kutsukake ic:march 2013
tanba ic-kyotanba-wachi ic:fiscal year 2014
municipalities traversed by the expressway
keiji bypass(kumiyamayodo ic to oyamazaki jct)
kyoto prefecture
kumiyama town,kuse-gun-yawata city-fushimi ward,kyoto city-yawata city-oyamazaki-cho,otokuni-gun
kutsukake ic(oe ic)to tanba ic
kyoto prefecture
sakyo ward kyoto city-kameoka city-nantan city-kyotanba-cho,funai-gun
ayabe ankokuji ic to miyatsu amanohashidate ic
kyoto prefecture
ayabe city-maizuru city-miyatsu city
