godaisan-kaido highway
godaisan-kaido highway is a byway of about 36 km serviced in the edo period in omi province between tsuchiyama(current koka city)and obata(current higashi omi city).
it is formally called 'tokaido-wakikaido byway,hokkokuetsu azuchi-do road.'
it is also called ise-do road or ichi-do road.
it is said that the highway was maintained when kasuga no tsubone made her pilgrimage from ise-jingu shrine to taga-taisha shrine in 1640.
the highway is called godaisan(meaning visiting in place of another)-kaido highway because in the mid-edo period there was a tradition among the courtiers in kyoto to send a representative to ise-jingu shrine and to taga-taisha shrine three times a year(new year,may and september),and the highway was used in those occasions.
however,there is no mention of 'godaisan-kaido highway' in documents or records of the edo period,and it was only in 1868 that the name began to appear.
since there is a 'to the right,hokkoku taga highway,hino hachiman road' road sign in the tokaido tsuchiyama post town,the highway must have been used as the shortest route to hokkoku.
the roads that inherited the role of this highway are routes 52,45,46(prefectural roads),route 477(national highway),and shiga prefecture route 41,and the railway that runs the route is oumi railway.
however,oumi railway runs from hino to kibukawa,minakuchi-cho,koka city without going through sasao-toge pass.
places on route
tsuchiyama-cho(koka city)
sasao-toge pass
kaigake(hino-cho,shiga prefecture)
ishiwara(hino-cho)
okamoto(higashi omi city)
yokaichi(higashi omi city)
obata(higashi omi city)
cultural assets along the routes and in the vicinity.
hoto tower in shoho-ji temple(important cultural asset)
hokyoin tower in hitsusa-jinja shrine(important cultural asset)
kuju no to tower in yusen-ji temple(important cultural asset)
the main building of takagi-jinja shrine and the main building of keidaisha,hiyoshi-jinja shrine(both are important cultural assets)
hichiju no to tower in shakunin-ji temple(important cultural asset)
the main building,main gate,and place for the retired of fuse-jinja shrine(all named important cultural assets)
rhododendron of kaigake-dani valley and byobu-iwa rock of kaigake(both named a special natural treasure)
