fukuchiyama municipal operation bus
the fukuchiyama municipal operation bus is the community oriented bus operated by fukuchiyama city,kyoto prefecture.
summary
this bus route was handed over to fukuchiyama city from three towns of this area,when those towns were incorporated into fukuchiyama city.
all of the former town bus services had replaced the former private bus services and the former national railway bus service,when those bus services were discontinued by those companies.
operating routes
there are also some irregular bus routes other than the ones described in this article.
oe bus routes
the origin of this bus route is the former oe-cho municipal management bus,which was handed over from the former kyoto transport co.,ltd.kameoka management office and the former national railway bus to oe-cho(this is the town that used to belong to the former kasa district of kyoto prefecture.)
refer to the linked information web site and the bus route chart.
oe yamanoie route:sakaigawa-gujyo station-tadewara-oe station(kyoto prefecture)-futamata station-oe yamaguchi naiku station-juvenile center-oe yamanoie
nika south route:gujyo station front-green hill-former agricultural cooperative office front-senbara north-tadehara-oe station front-kyoto prefectural oe high school-kitaariji-nika north-nika south
remote area bus
nanboku(north-south)route
hashidani route
owarada route
kitahara route
ichiwara route
miwa bus routes
the origin of this bus route is the former miwa-cho municipal management bus,which was handed over from the west jr bus company and the former kyoto transport co.,ltd.,and the shinki bus co.,ltd.to miwa-cho(this is the town that used to belong to the former amata district of kyoto prefecture.)
the public nickname of this bus is the 'hagi-go' (bushclover).
refer to the linked information web site and the bus route chart.
hosomi bus routes
tanotani-tenman-jinja shrine front-nishi-matsuguci-senzoku-welfare center front-miwa apartment
day-care center-senzoku-welfare center front-sinbashi-miwa apartment-kozasa
kawai obara route:tsuji-senzoku-welfare center front-miwa apartment-sinbashi-kawai day-care center-kawaiguchi-obara-teramachi-ayabe station
ubara route:senzoku-welfare center front-miwa apartment-hosomi tsuji-general assembly hall-miwa post office(kyoto prefecture)-ubara naka shoe store-fukuchiyama municipal ubara elementary school-ubara-omi north-kayo
tomobuchi route:welfare center front-senzoku-hosomi tsuji-general assembly hall-miwa post office-ubara naka shoe store-tokuyo(special nursing home for elderly)front-sainono-tomobuchi-kusayama spa-alpine hotel
yakuno bus routes
the origin of this bus route is the former yakuno-cho municipal management bus,which was handed over from the former kyoto transport co.,ltd.to yakuno-cho(this is the town that used to belong to the former amata district of kyoto prefecture.)
the public nickname of this bus is the "fureai yakuno."
refer to the linked information web site and the bus route chart.
ito-chihara route:simo-yakuno station-fureai plaza front-shimo-chihara-takauchi-kuchi-ogura-roadside station farming craftsman village yakuno-kami-yakuno station-kazuka-imoji-tatani
naomi route:fureai plaza front-shimo-yakuno station front-simo-heki-takauchi-oyugo-kami-yakuno station front-farming craftsman village-kazuka-soedani-miyagaki-saitani
hata route:imazato-kinno-obata-hata cultural exchange center front-fureai plaza front-shimo-yakuno station front-shimo-heki-takauchi-oyugo-kami-yakuno station front-farming craftsman village
