horikawa-dori street
horikawa-dori street is one of the major north-south streets in kyoto city.
it corresponds to horikawa-koji street of heian-kyo.
there are higashi-horikawa-dori street and nishi-horikawa-dori street in some sections,which run along the two sides of the hori-kawa river(kyoto prefecture),but nishi-horikawa-dori street is usually called horikawa-dori street.
today
it starts in the north,from kamo-kaido road to the bank of the kamo-gawa river(yodo-gawa river system),and in the south merges with abura-no-koji dori street,which runs one block east around the north of the intersection with the tokaido main line.
as a highway it is one street,but in the south it is called abura-no-koji street.
the section north of horikawa-shimei-dori street is a four-lane highway,and the section between horikawa-shimei-dori street and horikawa-imadegawa-dori street is a wide,six-lane highway with a broad center divider.
in the section between horikawa-imadegawa and horikawa-oike-dori street,hori-kawa river is open(not a closed circuit)as described below,and both higashi-horikawa-dori street and nishi-horikawa-dori street run in parallel.
horikawa-dori street runs from oike over the closed hori-kawa river,deviates east from horikawa gojo,joins samegai-dori street,and turns eastward at a right angle at the north of nishi hongan-ji temple;while the hori-kawa river(which is still closed)deviates west around horikawa-shijo-dori street,horikawa-dori street merges,at the north side of the tokaido main line,with abura-no-koji dori street(a street running one block to the east).
the name of the street south of the merging point is abura-no-koji dori street,but some call it shin-horikawa-dori street(the new horikawa-dori street)because it continues from horikawa-dori street.
south of shichijo,nishi-horikawa-dori street runs a block away from horikawa-dori street over the closed hori-kawa river.
the section south from horikawa gojo is national route 1.
crossing roads
roads are operated by local municipalities unless otherwise specified.
traffic volume
fiscal year 2005 average weekday 24-hour traffic volume(numbers)(road traffic census)
teranouchitate-cho,horikawa-dori teranouchi agaru(to the north of horikawa-dori teranouchi),kamigyo ward:34,357
history
higashi-horikawa-dori street,the hori-kawa river and nishi-horikawa-dori street were once of nearly identical width.
nishi-horikawa-dori street is now wider because,during world war ii,the houses along it were forced to move in order to provide a fire-blocking zone.
the horikawa line of kyoto city trams(unofficially called the kitano line,n-den),which was opened by kyoto electric railway,ran on the narrow higashi-horikawa-dori street from horikawa-nakadachiuri-dori street to shijo-horikawa until 1961,when it was abolished.
the hori-kawa river
the hori-kawa river(kyoto prefecture)is open only in the section between imadegawa-dori street and the oike-dori street,with the majority being a closed circuit.
little water flows in the river,but it was once used for dying nishijin-brocade.
main facilities along the street
horikawa-dori street cuts through the northernmost point of the site(now designated a historical site),on which odoi fortress was constructed.
kyoto-kita post office,kitayama-horikawa kado(corner of kitayama-horikawa)
the kita police station of kyoto police,shichiku-dori kado(corner of shichiku-dori street)
grave of ono no takamura and murasaki shikibu,kitaoji sagaru(to the south of kitaoji)
tankosha publishing co.,ltd.,shimei-dori,kuramaguchi-dori kado(corner of shimei-dori street ad kuramaguchi-dori street)
honpo-ji temple,horikawa-teranouchi agaru(to the north of horikawa-teranouchi)
chado shiryo-kan(chado research center gallery),same as above
hokyo-ji temple,horikawa-teranouchi higashi iru(to the east of horikawa-teranouchi)
shiramine-jingu shrine,horikawa-imadegawa higashi iru(to the east of horikawa-imadegawa-dori street)
nishijin textile center,horikawa-imadegawa sagaru(to the south of horikawa-imadegawa)
seimei-jinja shrine,horikawa-moto-seiganji sagaru(the main building faces yoshiyamachi-dori street,one block to the west)
ichijomodori-bashi bridge spans the hori-kawa river at ichijo-dori street.
the remains of jinsai ito's kogido school,horikawa-demizu sagaru(to the south of horikawa-demizu)
the kyoto campus of sundai preparatory school,horikawa-marutamachi sagaru(to the south of horikawa-marutamachi)
nijo castle,from horikawa-takeyamachi to horikawa-oshikoji
ana hotel kyoto,horikawa-oshikoji kado(corner of horikawa-oshikoji)
tozai line of the kyoto municipal subway-nijojo-mae station
nakagyo ward office,chugyo health care center,kyoto city and chugyo fire station in kyoto city horikawa-oike kado(corner of horikawa-oike)
kyoto municipal horikawa high school,horikawa-nishikikoji agaru(to the north of horikawa-nishikikoji)
the horikawa police station of kyoto police,horikawa-matsubara sagaru(to the south of horikawa-matsubara)
horikawa-gojo crossing
tokyu hotels co.,ltd,horikawa-gojo sagaru(to the south of horikawa-gojo)
nishi hongan-ji temple
kosho-ji temple,shichijo-horikawa agaru(to the north of shichijo-horikawa)
rihga royal hotel kyoto,horikawa-shiokoji kado(corner of horikawa-shiokoji)
