karasuma-dori street
karasuma-dori street is one of the major north-south streets in kyoto city.
the kanji烏丸is originally read as 'karasumaru,' but the pronunciation has been simplified and now reads 'karasuma.'
it corresponds to karasumaru-koji street of heiankyo.
in the north it extends to imamiya-dori street just north of kitaoji bus terminal(kitaoji station).
southward,it is bisected by kyoto station but extends to kuzebashi-dori street.
it is a four-lane street throughout,except for the section north of kitaoji-dori street.
the area along karasuma street,particularly around the shijo-karasuma crossing,is known as the business district of kyoto,where many banks and companies are located.
the karasuma-sen(karasuma line)of kyoto city subway runs below the street.
karasuma-dori street has been a main street facing kyoto station since the station opened in 1877.
the street was widened from its origination as a path along which the emperor would go to kyoto gosho(old imperial palace)from kyoto station.
it has taken the place of senbon-dori street,the former suzakuoji broad avenue of heiankyo,to become a main street of present-day kyoto,because it passes the west side of kyoto gosho and crosses kyoto station north and south.
also,the section between karasuma-shichijo-dori street and karasuma-gojo-dori street belongs to national highway route no.24,and the section between karasuma-gojo-dori street and karasuma-kitaoji-dori street belongs to national highway route no.367.
the section between oike-dori street and shijo-dori street has been designated as a public non-smoking area.
crossing roads and others
roads are operated by the local municipalities unless otherwise specified.
facilities along the street
otani university
doshisha university
kyoto broadcasting system company limited
go-jinja shrine
kyoto st.agnes episcopal church
kyoto gyoen-kyoto gosho
all stations between kitaoji station and jujo station of karasuma-sen(karasuma line),kyoto city subway
kyoto international manga museum
shin-puh-kan
hankyu kyoto main line,karasuma station
cocon karasuma
higashi hongan-ji temple
kyoto tower
kyoto station
