matsubara-dori street
matsubara-dori street is one of the major east-west streets in kyoto city.
it starts in front of the gate of kiyomizu-dera temple and extends a block beyond sainishi-dori street in the west.
from the east end(which is the gate of kiyomizu-dera temple)to the higashioji-dori street is also called kiyomizu-michi.
the street west of teramachi-dori street corresponds to gojo-oji street of heian-kyo.
the beautiful pine trees bordering the street led it to be called 'gojo-matsubara-dori street,' but only the name 'matsubara-dori street' remains.
hideyoshi toyotomi moved a bridge in gojo to where it is today,and the street two blocks south(having the name gojo-no-hashi bridge)then assumed the name of gojo-dori street.
therefore,the bridge of the matsubara-dori street is the true 'bridge in gojo' where ushiwakamaru and the priest musashibo benkei are said to have met;this means that the statues of ushiwakamaru and benkei standing at gojo-ohashi nishizume are two blocks south of where they should be.
incidentally,some say that the bridge where they met was the one spanning over the kamo-gawa river(yodo-gawa river system),while others say the bridge was the one near gojo tenshingu shrine that crossed a river running along nishinotoin-dori street,since kamo-gawa had no bridge.
most of matsubara-dori street today is a narrow,one-way road in the shopping district that continues across horikawa-dori street.
this street is the only one(except for main thoroughfares such as sanjo,shijo,gojo and shichijo)that can take you from karasuma-dori street to higashioji-dori street by car(not in the opposite direction).
main facilities along the street
kiyomizu-dera temple
sannei-zaka slope
rokudo-chinno-ji temple
rokuharamitsu-ji temple
the higashiyama police station of kyoto police
the headquarters of the kyoto shinkin bank
myooin fudo-ji temple
choko-ji temple
gojo tenshingu shrine
the horikawa police station of kyoto police
japan tobacco kyoto kaikan hall
diamond city hana
