gojo-zaka
gojo-zaka is another name for the eastern section of gojo-dori street,a street running inside kyoto city.
it also refers to the name of a crossing(gojozaka crossing)with higashioji-dori street.
this section describes both.
gojo-zaka as a street
gojo-zaka is another name for the eastern section of gojo-dori street,referring to a slope heading toward kiyomizu-dera temple from the higashioji-dori street(gojozaka crossing)to kiyomizu-michi(matsubara-dori street).
some refer to the section as including the section of gojo-dori street(national highway route no.1)from gojo-ohashi higashizume(east foot of gojo-ohashi bridge)to higashioji-dori street.
the section from gojozaka crossing is lined with shops dealing in kiyomizu-ware and souvenir,because it provides primary access to kiyomizu-dera temple,one of the most popular tourist spots in kyoto.
the street,which is barely wide enough for two sightseeing buses to pass each other,is crowded with tourists walking up from higashioji-dori street together with sightseeing busses,taxis,and private cars going to parking lots near the gate during the spring and autumn sightseeing seasons.
in november 2005,temporary measures were taken to close vehicle access during weekends and holidays in peak sightseeing season.
in 2007,the measures were not taken:instead only a left turn into gojo-zaka was prohibited at gojo-ohashi higashizume during weekends and holidays in peak sightseeing season.
toki matsuri(ceramic work festival)(higashiyama ward)is held in early august every year on the street in the section located between gojo-ohashi higashizume and higashioji-dori street and its surroundings(the toki matsuri held at kiyomizuyaki-danchi in the yamashina ward on the fourth week of july has no relation).
the section between gojo-ohashi and the higashioji-dori street was widened through building demolition at the end of world war ii,resulting in each street having 4 lanes for traffic in each direction.
a monument saying 'this is gojo-zaka from here' stands on the north side of yamato-oji-dori gojo crossing,
facilities along the street
kyoto tojiki kaikan(kyoto ceramic center)
kiyomizu-dera temple
jishu-jinja shrine(deity of marriage)
chawan-zaka slope
sannei-zaka slope(sannen-zaka slope)
ninen-zaka slope(ninen-zaka slope)
rokuharamitsu-ji temple
gojo-zaka crossing
located in the higashiyama ward,kyoto city,it is a crossing between higashioji-dori street and gojo-zaka.
it is constituted of successive crossings with higashiyama gojo crossing immediately south on higashioji-dori street.
many tourists can be found because the nearest bus stop from kiyomizu-dera temple is located at the crossing.
transportation
keihan bus co.,ltd.(gojozaka stop)
kyoto city bus(gojozaka stop)
kyoto bus co.,ltd.(higashiyama-gojo stop)
