shijo-dori street
shijo-dori street is one of the major east-west streets in kyoto city.
it corresponds to shijo-oji street of heiankyo.
it extends from higashioji-dori street in gion,the bottom of the steps of yasaka-jinja shrine in the east,to matsuno-taisha shrine in the west.
the area from gion to shijo-karasuma,particularly around shijo kawaramachi crossing,comprises the largest shopping and entertainment district in kyoto.
its crossing street,shijo-muromachi-dori street,is called hoko no tsuji and is regarded as the center of shimogyo ward,which indicates that shijo-dori street has traditionally been a key road and served as the east-west axis of kyoto.
underground,the hankyu kyoto main line runs between shijo kawaramachi and shijo,nishioji-dori street.
(an underground walkway connects karasuma station and kawaramchi station(kyoto prefecture)).
bicycling,whether on the roadway or on the sidewalk,is prohibited between shijo kawaramachi and shijo karasuma except during the nighttime.
on may 30,2007,kyoto city announced its 'transit mall' plan,whereby the section between kawabata-dori street and karasuma-dori street would be opened only to public transportation,with all private vehicles being banned.
the goal is to implement the plan within three years after conducting social experiments with regard to the actual limits.
the experiment was conducted in mid-october of the same year,and the street was closed to vehicles except for route buses and taxis in order to broaden the pedestrian path for a certain period of time on october 12-14.
the section between higashioji-dori street and karasuma-dori street is a public non-smoking area.
information on the street
road name
all of the street from gion to matsuno-taisha shrine is designated from arashiyama-gion-sen,kyoto city road 186 go.
crossing roads
east is upper,and west is lower.
north is to the left,and south is to the right.
roads are operated by local municipalities unless otherwise specified.
main facilities along the street
yasaka-jinja shrine,gion crossing
minami-za(theater),shijo-ohashi higashizume
shijo-ohashi bridge(kamo-gawa river(yodo-gawa water system))
shijo-kawaramachi hankyu(hankyu hanshin department store),kawaramachi-kado
kyoto takashimaya,kawaramachi-kado
shinkyogoku-dori shopping street
fuji daimaru,teramachi-kado
the headquarters of kyoto chuo shinkin bank
daimaru kyoto,takakura-kado
the headquarters of kyoto chuo shinkin bank
kyoto sangyo kaikan,karasuma-kado
ikenobo college,muromachi-kado
kyoto university of foreign studies
umezu office,kyoto municipal transportation bureau
kyoto factory,mitsubishi motors corporation
umenomiya taisha
matsuobashi(katsura river(yodo-gawa water system))
matsuno-taisha shrine
railway stations along the street
keihan electric railway-shijo station(keihan)
karasuma-sen(karasuma line),kyoto city subway-shijo station(kyoto city subway)
hankyu kyoto main line-kawaramachi station(kyoto prefecture)-karasuma station-omiya station(kyoto prefecture)-sai station
hankyu arashiyama-sen-matsuo station(kyoto prefecture)
keifuku electric railroad-shijo-omiya station-sai station
