honmachi-dori street(kyoto)
the honmachi-dori street is a street running north-south through kyoto city.
located on the east side of the kamo-gawa river(yodo-gawa water system),it runs east of kawabata-dori street and shidan-kaido road,both of which are streets running north-south,and located west of yamato-oji-dori street.
in the north it starts from gojo-dori street;while from the south it continues as sujikaibashi-dori street in fushimi ward and then connects to national highway route no.24.
the route largely corresponds to former fushimi-kaido road.
in higashiyama ward ryogawa-cho(town which exists on both sides area of the street)is arranged along the street;where towns have numbers within their names from 1 to 22 from the north--that is 1 chome,honmachi to 22 chome,honmachi higashiyama ward
the name of sujikaibashi-dori street originates from the name of a bridge(sujikai-bashi bridge)over nanase-gawa river.
the name 'sujikai-bashi' comes from the bridge that crossed the river diagonally.
fukakusa-sujikaibashi-minami 1 chome is located south of the sujikai-bashi bridge,whereas fukakusa-sujikaibashi-kita 1 chome,is located north of the bridge.
north of 1 chome,ryogawa-cho(town consisted the both sides area of the street)is arranged along the street;where towns have numbers within their names from 2 to 11 from the north--that is 2 chome to 11 chome,fukakusa-sujikaibashi.
dai juroku shidan(16th division)of the imperial japanese army was once located in fukakusa,and its divisional headquarters were near 5 chome,fukakusa-sujikaibashi.
the headquarters building remains as honkan(main building)of kyoto/fujimori campus,seibo gakuin school.
a public bath named gunjin-yu is found along the street,evidence that the town used to thrive because of the presence of the military facilities.
most sections from the gojo-dori street to the national highway route no.24 are one-way heading north(for all vehicles except two-wheel vehicles).
in 9 chome,honmachi,the street is divided by the tokaido main line and the tokaido shinkansen.(a pedestrian bridge exists over the train tracks.)
there is a detour from 8 chome,honmachi(the shiokoji-dori street)to 10 chome,honmachi(sennyuji-michi),which is connected to the street west of the railway.
the detour is called shin-motomachi-dori street.
most sections are designated kyoto city road except for the section between fukakusa-inari-onmae-cho and daiichi gundo(first military road),shidan-kaido road,which belongs to nakayama-inari-sen,kyoto fudo 201 go(kyoto prefectural road 201).
