shichijo-dori street
shichijo-dori street is one of the major east-west streets in kyoto city.
the street corresponds to shichijo-oji street in heiankyo.
the eastern end is the crossing with higashioji-dori street,higashiyama-shichijo.
in the west,the street turns south after crossing kadonoji-dori street and merges with hachijo-dori street at the eastern end of katsura-ohashi bridge,which straddles the katsura river(yodo-gawa water system).
its western end is sanin-kaido road.
during modern times,the border between rakuchu and rakugai was around nanajo-senbon,from which sanin-kaido road ran in such a manner that shichijo-dori street was extended westward.
however,in the late meiji period the street was widened between higashioji-dori street and omiya-dori street according to the three major city plans of kyoto city;later,according to a city plan in the taisho and early showa eras,the western end of the wide street was extended to nishioji-dori street in order to lay the rails for kyoto city trams.
consequently,the street west of nishioji-dori street is still narrow but there remain traces of the historic highway in the east side of katsura ohashi bridge or around katagihara on sanin-kaido road(old sanin-kaido road).
kyoto national museum,sanjusangendo temple,chishakuin and yogenin are located in the vicinity of higashiyama-shichijo.
higashi hongan-ji temple is found at karasuma-shichijo-agaru,and nishi hongan-ji temple is located at horikawa-shichijo-agaru.
the first market,kyoto city central wholesale market,the "kitchen of kyoto's people," is on senbon-nanajo.
around the market,the street is wide with parking lots on both sides.
the correct pronunciation of '七条' is 'shichijo,' but local people may pronounce it as 'hichijo' or 'hiccho.
on the city buses,bus stops starting with七条are intentionally pronounced 'nanajo.'
the purpose is to prevent any confusion with the "ichijo" of ichijo-dori street.
crossing roads
roads are operated by local municipalities unless otherwise specified.
main facilities along the street
chishakuin
kyoto national museum
sanjusangendo temple
keihan electric railway-shichijo station
shichijo-ohashi bridge(kamo-gawa river(yodogawa water system))
shin-shu hombyo(higashi hongan-ji temple)
nishi hongan-ji temple
omiya campus of ryukoku university
umekoji park
umekoji steam locomotive museum
the first market:kyoto city central wholesale market
