takeda-kaido road
the takeda-kaido road is one of the roads which links kyo(the heart of kyoto city)and fushimi(the fushimi ward,kyoto city).
it extended from the takeda-guchi exit,which can be cited as one of the seven exits of kyoto,to the fushimi port via the former takeda-mura,kii-gun(present day takeda,fushimi ward,kyoto city).
it is regarded as a part of nara-kaido road or kyo-kaido road.
today it still links the heart of kyoto city with fushimi city and serves as a primary highway and is part of the national highway route no.24 leading to nara city.
history
the takeda-kaido road is said to have been built during the edo period.
it was paved with kuruma-ishi stones,and goods were transported by carriages pulled by cattle.
some kuruma-ishi stones were left in toka elementary school.
in 1895 japan's first commercial electric railroad was built roughly along takeda-kaido road by kyoto denki tetsudo(kyoto electric railway)between kyoto station and kyobashi,kyoto city.
the railroad was taken over by kyoto-shiden(kyoto municipal streetcar),which was stopped in 1970 before the city tram was completely abolished.
in 1971,the following year,takeda-kaido road was designated as national highway route no.24.
current route
today fushimi-ko-kyoto-teishajo-sen,kyoto fudo 115 go(kyoto prefectural road 115)(with the section from takeda-kaido jujo-dori to fukakusa-kagayashiki-cho overlapping with the national highway route no.24)is called takeda-kaido road.
the kyoto fudo 115 go runs from takeda-kaido hachijo-dori to the kyoto-sotokanjo-sen belt line in fushimi ward.
though it runs on the extension line of higashinotoin-dori street,today,kyoto station interrupts it halfway;takakura rikkyo overpass(nicknamed takabashi)joins it with takakura-dori street at shiokoji-takakura,allowing it to connect with the northern side of kyoto station.
fushimi-kaido road runs parallel about 1 km east of the road along the foot of mountains.
cross roads
roads unless specified are operated by local municipalities.
