nishioji-dori street
the nishioji-dori street,located west of the heart of kyoto city,is one of the major north-south streets running in kyoto city.
the street has relatively a short history;it opened in the early showa period in a city development program(as a city planning road)involving the layout of kyoto municipal streetcar on the street,following the road expansion program which was part of kyoto's big three projects in late meiji period and taisho period.
the section between the kitaoji-dori street and kujo-dori street opened in 1939,after which the nishioji-sen of the kyoto municipal streetcar commenced operation along the street in 1943 coinciding with the opening of the section linking enmachi and hakubai-cho.
(the street car was abolished in 1978.)
the street roughly follows nodera-koji of heiankyo.
however the two roads happened to correspond with each other in comparing today's map with the heian period's;the nishioji-dori street was not developed according to the nodera-koji but built in the showa period.
between the kitaoji-dori street in the north and the jujo-dori street in the south,the street is straight and oriented due north,although the section north of hirano-jinja shrine in the north and the section south of the kujo-dori street run diagonally eastward.
on the street north of kujo,five mountains send-off bonfires can be seen directly north.
(unless the view is not blocked by high structures such as the elevated bridge of sanin main line.)
after the decline of ukyo,the street was removed from the heart of the city and most of the sections are located outside odoi fortress made by hideyoshi toyotomi,or in rakugai(outside of the capital kyoto).
the names of districts such as saiin and nishi-shichijo around the crossings of nishioji-shijo and nishioji-shichijo come from a time when the names used to refer to the villages.
marathons or marathon relay races are often held on the street north from gojo-dori street to kitaoji-dori street.
this is because the athletics and ball game ground,nishikyogoku sogo undo park is located west of nishioji-gojo,where such races often start and finish.
street information
official street names
all sections of the nishioji-dori street(kitaoji-dori street-jujo-dori street)belong to kyoto city road 181 go kyoto kanjosen(belt line),a principal local road,which starts from higashiyama-sanjo crossing and finishes at jujo crossing with takeda-kaido road via the higashioji-dori street,kitaoji-dori street,nishioji-dori street,and jujo-dori street.
crossing streets
the upper side is considered the northern portion,while the lower side is considered the southern portion.
the left side is considered the western portion,while the right side is considered the east portion.
roads unless specified are operated by local municipalities excluding principal local roads.
traffic volume
fiscal year 2005 average weekday 24-hour traffic volume(numbers)(road traffic census)
shichijo-goshono-uchihon-cho,nishioji-hachijo agaru,shimogyo ward:45,852
facilities along the street
rokuon-ji temple(note:strictly it is a little bit away from the street.)
ditto
wara tenjin(shikichi-jinja shrine)
hirano-jinja shrine
kitano line,keifuku electric railroad-kitano-hakubaicho station
hakubai branch shop,izumiya
sanin main line-enmachi station(*)
tozai line,kyoto city subway line-nishioji-oike station
arashiyama main line,keifuku electric railroad-nishiojisanjo station
hankyu corporation-saiin station
kyoto city hospital(*)
kyoto chusho-kigyo kaikan(kyoto small-and-medium-sized enterprise hall)
head office,lopro corporation
wacoal corporation
head office of nippon shinyaku co.,ltd.
tokaido main line-nishioji station
jasco rakunan shopping center
rakunan branch shop,jasco
