onimasumishiritsuhiko-jinja shrine
onimasumishiritsuhiko-jinja shrine is a shinto shrine located in tawaramoto-cho,shiki county,nara prefecture
the shrine is a shikinaisha(a shrine listed in the engishiki[an ancient book of laws and regulations compiled during the engi era listing shrines]),and was designated a prefectural shrine under the old shrine ranking system.
it is generally referred to as o-jinja shrine,and is also written '多社,' '多坐神社,' '太社' and '意富社' in addition to '多坐弥志理都比古神社.'
enshrined deities
the following four deities are the main enshrined deities.
the second sanctuary:kamuyaimimi-no-mikoto
the third sanctuary:kamununakawamimi-no-mikoto
(the emperor suizei,the younger brother of kamuyaimimi-no-mikoto)
the first sanctuary:kamuyamatoiwarehiko-no-mikoto
(the emperor jinmu,the father of kamuyaimimi-no-mikoto)
the fourth sanctuary:tamayori bime
(the grandmother of kamuyaimimi-no-mikoto)
the o clan used this district as its base,enshrining kamuyaimimi-no-mikoto as the soshin(ancestor honored as god).
in the engishiki jimmyocho(a register of shrines in japan),this shrine is listed under 'toichi-gun,yamato province,onimasumishiritsuhiko-jinja shrine niza(enshrining two deities).'
in "ojingu chusinjo" (the crops report of the manor of ojingu)submitted in 1149 to the provincial governor by o-no-ason tsunemaro,a negi(an assistant to guji[chief priest]),there is a description that the shrine enshrines the following two deities.
additionally,it is described that two deities in the jimmyocho refers to mihishirihikohime-no-kami after the shrine's name.
utsunomikosakatsuhiko-no-mikoto(the imperial image existing in yasakani-no-magatama[magatama jewel,one of "three sacred treasures of japan"):the same deity as kasuganokoyashironimasu miko-jinja shrine located in takayasu county,kawachi province enshrines
amatsuoya sakatsuhime-no-mikoto(a deity existing in yata-no-kagami[a mirror,one of "three sacred treasures of japan"):the same deity as amaterasuokami takakura-jinja shrine enshrines
in "record of o-daimyojin shrine" compiled in 1737,this shrine is described as enshrining the four currently enshrined deities.
in "jinja meisaicho" (official records of shinto shrines)compiled during the meiji period,however,the shrine regards the first and fourth sanctuaries of the honden(main sanctuary)as auxiliary shrines,with the two deities kamuyaimimi-no-mikoto and kamununakawamimi-no-mikoto enshrined as the main enshrined deities.
the shrine's name itself means "a shrine enshrining mishiritsuhiko."
mishiritsuhiko is the same as kamuyaimimi-no-mikoto.
kamuyaimimi-no-mikoto gave up the right of succession to the imperial throne and ceded it to his younger brother,despite being the eldest child of the emperor jinmu.
kamuyaimimi-no-mikoto is also referred to as 'mishiritsuhiko' on the grounds that such conduct as withdrawing oneself from something is translated as 'mi o shirizoita' in japanese.
referred to as kasuga-no-miya shrine(春日宮)in ancient times,the shrine is believed to have had a torii(shrine gate)on every side.
the shrine was apparently designed taking directions into consideration,which implies that this area was regarded as a sacred place of sun worship.
history
there is a description in japanese mythology that kamuyaimimi-no-mikoto handed over the imperial throne to his younger brother and devoted himself to enshrining deities of heaven and earth.
the shrine interprets this description as the origin of the shrine.
in 580 bc,kamuyaimimi-no-mikoto constructed a residence in kasuga-no-agata(later toichi-no-agata)where he erected a primitive shrine where he enshrined deities.
it is believed that amatsuhinoninotama-no-miko and amatsushirushi kagami tsurugi-no-kami were ceremonially enshrined in 91 b.c.after the shrine was remodeled.
in the engishiki jimmyocho(a register of shrines in japan),this shrine is listed under 'toichi county,yamato province,onimasumishiritsuhiko-jinja shrine niza,' included in the myojin-taisha shrine and qualified to receive the offerings to deities in tsukinami-sai festival,ainame-sai festival and niiname-sai festival.
according to "a draft of o-jingu shrine chusinjo" (a draft of the crops report of the manor of o-jingu shrine)completed in 1141,the shrine is conferred the divine rank of the senior first rank.
the shrine was designated a village shrine in the meiji period,and promoted to a prefectural shrine in 1923.
facilities
the main sanctuary was built in the kasuga-zukuri style(a style of shrine architecture employed in main sanctuaries,that has the same basic form as that at kasuga taisha shrine),consisting of four buildings.
behind the main sanctuary,there is a small hill called 'jinmu-zuka' (literally a mound of jinmu),which is thought to have been a place where religious services were held in ancient times or a tomb.
kumano-jinja shrine,sumiyoshi-jinja shrine,kasuga-jinja shrine,ishigami-jinja shrine,kamado-jinja shrine and hachiman-jinja shrine are keidaisha(auxiliary shrines within the precinct of the main shrine).
the following are keigaisessha(auxiliary shrines outside of the precinct of the main shrine),all of which are shikinaisha.
in the "go-gun jinja ki" (a record of shrines in five counties),the shrine is referred to as 'orokusho-jinja shrine' and it is stated that it consists of a main sanctuary enshrining two deities and the following four shrines enshrining the following four members of the miko-no-kami.
komori-jinja shrine(enshrining o-no-yasumaro):the small shikinaisha referred to by the name shosha shinmei-jinja shrine
mikonokaminomikoto-jinja shrine(enshrining mikonokami-no-mikoto):the small shikinaisha referred to by the name mikonokaminomikoto-jinja shrine(ronja(shrines considered to be descendants of a shikinai-sha))
himemikonomikoto-jinja shrine(enshrining himemiko-no-mikoto)the small shikinaisha referred to by the name himemikonomikoto-jinja shrine(ronja)
yatsugikaminomikoto-jinja shrine(enshrining yatsugi-no-kami):the small shikinaisha referred to by the name yatsugikaminomikoto-jinja shrine.
during work to bank the asuka-gawa river which runs behind the shrine in 1972,remains spanning a period from the jomon period to the kofun period(tumulus period)were discovered in the precincts.
rites and festivals
the festival called dairenzo(literally,big festival.the ancient primordial japanese word for festival is 'renzo')is held on the third sunday in april.
when japan adopted the old lunar calendar,the festival was held on a day around the vernal equinox day.
