jonen-ji temple
jonen-ji temple is a buddhist temple located in kamo-cho,kizugawa city,kyoto prefecture.
its sango(literally, "mountain name"),which is the title prefixed to the name of a buddhist temple,is tamonzan and the principal image is amida nyorai.
origin
1492:founded by the kaiki(founding patron)seiken and kaizan(founding priest)shinse-founder of the shinse school of the tendai sect.
1621:takatora todo lodged at jonen-ji temple.
c.1630:becomes part of the pure land sect.
1704:returns to the shinse school of the tendai sect.
1712:submerged when the kizu-gawa river(kyoto prefecture)flooded and rebuilt at its current location.
1996:main hall renovated.
2000:heiwa kannon statue constructed in celebration of the temple's construction.
completion of keian-seki stone reliefs depicting shaka nyorai flanked by two attendants and the sixteen lokapalas.
cultural properties
important cultural property
color painting on silk image of shaka nyorai in nirvana:created during the kamakura period
other cultural properties
paintings
thousand buddhas:created during the muromachi period
six-character name of priest shinsei:created during the muromachi period
buddha statues
seated statues of the ten kings:created during the muromachi period and a prefecture-registered cultural property
statue of gusho-shin in the half-lotus position:created during the muromachi period and a prefecture-registered cultural property
seated statue of datsue-ba:a prefecture-registered cultural property
standing statue of amida nyorai:created during the northern and southern court period(japan)
statue of shaka nyorai flanked by two attendant statues:created during the muromachi period
statue of jizo bosatsu in the half-lotus position:created during the fujiwara period
standing statue of jizo bosatsu:created during the kamakura period
statue of the eleven-faced kannon
statue of daikokuten
stonework
stone tablet commemorating a nenbutsu service held by priest seiken:inscribed in 1520
location
22 satooda,kamo-cho,kizugawa city,kyoto prefecture 619-1100
access
10 minutes walk from kamo station(kyoto prefecture)on the yamatoji line.
nearby attractions
joruri-ji temple
kaijusen-ji temple
remains of yamashiro kokubun-ji temple(remains of kuni-kyo city)
mitama-jinja shrine(kamo-cho)(formerly tomyo-ji temple)
kamo cultural center(ajisai hall)
