rikyu hachiman-gu shrine
rikyu hachiman-gu shrine is a shinto shrine located in oyamazaki-cho,otokuni-gun,kyoto prefecture.
summary
its original shrine was iwashimizu hachiman-gu shrine.
it enshrines the god hachiman.
it is said that when the monk gyokyo of daian-ji temple visited usa-jingu shrine,he acted as an oracle and transmitted the message 'move near to the capital for the protection of the state',and that a holy light that he saw at the remains of emperor saga's imperial villa signaled him to dig on the spot from which a spring gushed forth from between the rocks.
the shrine is known as the home of oil production in japan as the shinto priest at the time invented an oil press which made it possible to produce perilla oil.
it flourished due to the monopoly of sesame oil selling rights under the trade guild system.
basic information
the deities enshrined at the shrine are emperor ojin,empress jingu,sakatoke no okami and hime no kami.
founded in the year 859.
classified as a former prefectural shrine under the modern shrine ranking system.
architectural style of the main sanctuary:hachiman-zukuri
accessory structures
history
festivals
april 3:hinoto-sai(oil god festival)
september 15:annual festival
inner and outer subordinate shrines
takeuchi-sha shrine,amaterasu kotai-jinja shrine,ebisu-jinja shrine,kashima-jinja shrine,kehinomiya shrine,
koten-gu shrine,sho zensi-gu shrine,katte-jinja shrine,koshikaketen-jinja shrine,and kora-sha shrine.
chronology
related events are shown in angle brackets.
859:founded as iwashimizu hachiman-gu shrine
1864:damaged by fire during the kinmon rebellion
march,1868:<edict for separation of shinto and buddhism>
may 14,1871:<enactment of the shrine ranking system>
december 15,1945:<shinto directive>
1986: 'oil founder-rikyu hachiman-gu veneration association' established with activities mainly focused on oil manufacture.
cultural properties
important cultural properties
oyamazaki rikyu hachiman-gu monjo(historical documents):24 scrolls,1 book,1 binding,52 sheets
others
korai-mon gate:a cultural property designated by oyamazaki-cho.
east gate:an important cultural property designated by osaka prefecture
access
1 minute walk from yamazaki station(kyoto prefecture)on the jr kyoto line
3 minutes walk from oyamazaki station on the hankyu kyoto line.
nearby attractions
minase-jingu shrine
remains of sakurai station
sekidaimyo-jinja shrine
myoki-an temple
the taian teahouse
oyamazaki villa museum
oyamazaki-cho rekishi shiryokan(oyamazaki-cho historical archives)
dainen-ji temple
hoshaku-ji temple
yamazaki shoten
sakatoki-jinja shrine
remains of oyamazaki tile kiln(nationally designated historic site)
suntory yamazaki distillery
