enryu-ji temple(maizuru city)
enryu-ji temple is a buddhist temple belonging to the omuro school of the shingon sect located at the foot of mt.atago which overlooks nishi-maizuru in maizuru city,kyoto prefecture.
its honorific mountain prefix is mt.jikei.
origin and history
according to temple legend,it was founded during the nara period by the monk gyoki and restored in the 10th century by kokei.
in the edo period,the temple received the protection of the makino family who ruled the tanabe domain in tango province.
at the height of the temple's prosperity,its precincts covered an area of approximately 10 hectares-extending to the present-day jr west nishi-maizuru station,and containing approximately 70 sub-temples.
the buildings were all damaged in a fire that broke out in 1732 but it is said that devotees saved the buddha statues by carrying them out of the temple.
therefore the temple still possesses numerous heian period and kamakura period buddha statues including a seated statue of amida nyorai that is known as 'tango daibutsu' (great buddha of tango).
temple precincts
the current main hall,two-storey pagoda and main gate were rebuilt before the end of the 18th century.
these were created by hayashida dennojo fusaaki,a local carpenter,and are highly regarded as architectural works that incorporate original ideas such as the use of the kamebara(a squarish bun-shaped mound covered with white plaster)as roof tiles on the two-storey pagoda.
the unique main gate is of a 'mitsumune-zukuri' (lit.three ridges)construction and houses statues of the four heavenly kings at the fronts and backs of the side bays.
it is possible to walk from the temple grounds to the peak of mt.atago.
cultural properties
important cultural properties(nationally designated)
wooden seated statues of amida nyorai,yakushi nyorai and shaka nyorai:created during the heian period
wooden standing statues of fudo myoo and bishamonten
cultural properties designated by kyoto prefecture
main hall:reconstructed in the mid edo period
two-storey pagoda:reconstructed in the mid edo period,stands 15.3 meters tall and each side measures 3.03 meters
belfry:reconstructed in the mid edo period
chinju-do hall(guardian god hall):reconstructed in the mid edo period
main gate:reconstructed in the mid edo period
others
hojo(abbot's chamber):reconstructed in the mid edo period
kuri(monks' living quarters):reconstructed in the mid edo period
goma-do hall(hall for burning holy sticks of invocation):reconstructed in the mid edo period
shotoku taishi-do hall(hall devoted to prince shotoku:reconstructed in the mid edo period
kannon-do hall(hall devoted to kannon)
location
72 hikitsuchi,maizuru city,kyoto prefecture
access
take the jr west maizuru line or kita-kinki tango railway miyazu line to nishi-maizuru station and walk for 10 minutes
nearby attractions
asashiro-jinja shrine
hongyo-ji temple
keirin-ji temple
zuiko-ji temple(maizuru city)
takano-gawa river(maizuru city)
