omiyame-jinja shrine
omiyame-jinja shrine is a shinto shrine located in omiya-cho,kyotango city,kyoto prefecture(formerly omiya-cho,naka county(kyoto prefecture)).
it is listed in the jinmyocho(register of shrines and deities)of the engishiki(laws of the engi era)as the ninomiya(2nd ranked shrine)of tango province.
the shrine's name is derived from the 'omiya-cho' town in which it is located.
enshrined deities
omiyame-jinja shrine is of the hasshinden(eight shrines)which enshrine deities that serve amaterasu omikami and protect the emperor,and enshrines the god omiyame no kami of textiles and rice wine production,the goddess wakamiyame no kami(toyouke bime)of food and grains.
omiyame no kami is believed to be amenouzume.
history
the time of the shrine's founding is unknown but according to 'shinsho kyakuchoku fusho,' the shrine was allotted seven households in the year 806 and was granted the rank of jugoinoge(junior fifth rank,lower grade)in the year 859.
it is the oldest shrine to enshrine omiyame no kami.
the former main building is thought to have been constructed in 1695 and is built in the sumikoiri kasuga-zukuri style,which is rare on the tango peninsula.
it was damaged in the northern tango province earthquake of 1927 and now serves as a churei-sha shrine(a shrine commemorating the war dead).
the remains of ishimyojin(a cave shrine dating from the latter part of the kofun period),a sub-shrine and place where the sacred palanquin is lodged outside of the precinct,is located 500 m from the shrine.
there are two stone lanterns within the precinct,of which one is engraved with 'the 7th day of the 3rd month of the 2 year of the tokuji era(old lunar calendar)' (april 17,1307).
these are valuable as kamakura period stone artifacts and have been nationally designated important cultural properties.
the remains of a ritual site,earthenware artifacts dating from the latter part of the yayoi period to the first part of the kofun period and comma-shaped jewelry beads have also been excavated within the shrine precinct and are all cultural properties designated by kyoto prefecture(the remains of omiyame-jinja shrine).
a 'kinsoku no mori' (forbidden forest)is located behind the main building.
modern history
1872:former feudal warriors' residence relocated to serve as the shrine office.
1872:designated a gosha(village shrine)
april 5,1924:promoted to a fusha(prefectural shrine)
march 7,1927:roof of the main hall damaged in the tango earthquake
april 11,1930:the current main hall and ema hall(building for hanging votive tablets)completed
february 2,1962:the two stone lanterns nationally designated as important cultural properties
july 1,1985:the former main hall designated a cultural property of omiya-cho
april 15,1986:the entire shrine precinct designated a cultural property by kyoto prefecture
auxiliary and subsidiary shrines
omiyame-jinja shrine includes the following ten auxiliary and subsidiary shrines.
these include the precinct shrines in a same neighborhood.
otoshi-jinja shrine(odoshi no mikoto)
budai-jinja shrine(susanoo no mikoto)
okawa-jinja shrine(ukemochi no mikoto)
akiba-jinja shrine(kagutsuchi no mikoto)
inari-jinja shrine(uganomitama no mikoto)
satahiko-jinja shrine(sarutahiko no mikoto,kotoshironushi no mikoto)
sanja no yashiro(the three shrines)
tenshoko-jinja shrine(amaterasu omikami)
kasuga-jinja shrine(amenokoyane no mikoto)
hachiman-jinja shrine(hondawake no mikoto)
tenman-jinja shrine(sugawara no michizane)
festival
autumn festival(consisting of sasabayashi(a kind of dance to pray for a prosperous harvest),kagura(ancient shinto music and dancing),sanbaso(puppet dancing)and tachifuri(sword performance))(first saturday and sunday of october)
cultural properties
important cultural properties(nationally designated)
2 stone lanterns
cultural property designated by kyoto prefecture
the entire shrine precinct(a historic site designated by kyoto prefecture)
cultural property designated by kyotango city
former main hall(a structure designated by kyotango city)
sanbaso,sasabayashi,kagura(cultural properties registered by kyoto prefecture/intangible folk properties designated by kyotango city)
nearby attractions
otani burial mound,shinto burial mound,hidarizaka burial mounds,kasamachi burial mound,aminochoshiyama burial mound
grave of ono no komachi
access
rail
approximately 30 minutes walk from tango omiya station on the kita-kinki tango railway miyazu line.
road
approximately 1 hour from the miyazu amanohashidate interchange on the kyoto jukan expressway.
