juko-in temple
juko-in temple is a sub-temple located within the precinct of rinzai sect daihonzan(head temple)daitoku-ji temple in murasakino,kita ward,kyoto city,kyoto prefecture.
the name 'juko-in temple' is derived from 'jukoinden zenshosaminshitsu shinkindaizenjomon,' the posthumous buddhist name of nagayoshi miyoshi.
it is not ordinarily open to the public.
history
yoshitsugu miyoshi,the adopted son of nagayoshi miyoshi who was in the service of yoshiharu ashikaga,12th shogun of the muromachi bakufu(japanese feudal government headed by a shogun),founded juko-in temple in 1566 in order to pray for the soul of his adopted father and named shorei sokin as kaisan(first chief priest).
the temple came to serve as the graveyard of successive members of the three sen families(omote sen-ke,ura sen-ke,mushanokoji sen-ke)after sen no rikyu came to the temple to practice zen with founding priest shorei.
buildings
hojo(abbot's quarters)(important cultural property)
the building is highly representative of momoyama period hojo architecture and the interior is decorated with wall and sliding door paintings by shoei kano and his son eitoku kano.
kaiin-seki tearoom(important cultural property)
constructed and donated by nyoshinsai,the 7th head of the omote sen-ke family,on the 150th anniversary of the death of sen no rikyu in 1741.
this three tatami mat size teahouse features a middle post that stands at the front edge of the host's mat,a decorative alcove placed behind the host's mat and a hearth placed inside the guest's mat.
the middle post and alcove pillar feature the bark of the japanese red pine and the ceiling above the host's mat is a slightly lower dropped ceiling.
this tearoom was once said to be the place in which sen no rikyu committed suicide.
masudoko-seki tearoom(important cultural property)
this tearoom within the same building as the kaiin-seki tearoom but situated on the eastern side of the mizuya(tea ceremony preparation area)is named "masudoko-seki" (lit.masu alcove tearoom)as it has an alcove with a board floor at the same level as the tatami mats which resembles a regular square measuring container known as a "masu."
the half-sized tatami mat of the four and a half tatami mat area forms the alcove,and the hearth is cut into the host's mat in the corner adjacent to the alcove.
kakukakusai genso,the sixth head of omote sen-ke family was purportedly fond of the square alcove.
the grave of sen no rikyu
the approximately 2 meter high pagoda standing at the center of the ancestral graveyard of the three sen families was originally a memorial pagoda of which sen no rikyu was particularly fond that stood on mt.funaoka and it is said that he selected it to serve as his grave marker.
garden
hojo(abbot's quarters)garden(hyakuseki-no-niwa garden)
the front garden of the hojo said to have been created by sen no rikyu features stones arranged in straight lines on the moss and is named 'hyakuseki-no-niwa' (lit.the garden of a hundred stones)after the many arranged stones.
it is a nationally designated place of scenic beauty.
cultural properties
national treasures
38 paintings on sliding panels and wall panels of the abbot's quarters(hojo)(plus an additional 8 paintings)
16 kacho-zu(paintings of birds and flowers of the four seasons)
sliding panel and wall panel paintings within the 'inner room.'
created by eitoku kano aged 24.
the images brimming with life include combinations of plants and birds such as pine trees,bamboo,ume,mandarin ducks,wagtails and japanese red-crowned cranes.
8 kinki shoga-zu(paintings of the four elegant pastimes)
sliding panel and wall panel paintings within the 'danna-no-ma' (upper room).
created by eitoku kano.
depictions of indulgence in the four accomplishments of playing the zither,playing chinese chess(igo/shogi),practicing calligraphy and painting that were deemed necessary by the chinese scholar-bureaucrats(high-ranking bureaucrats who had earned academic degrees by passing imperial examinations).
whereas the kacho-zu of the inner room are of a loose informal style,these paintings are characterized by a more formal serious appearance.
8 shosho hakkei-zu(pictures of the eight views of xiaoxiang)
sliding panel and wall panel paintings within the 'rei-no-ma' (lower room).
a depiction by eitoku kano's father shoei kano of the eight views of the area where the xiao river and xiang river converge at lake dongting which has been visited as a place of scenic beauty by writers and artists since ancient times.
6 chikko yuen-zu(paintings of bamboo,tigers and monkeys)
sliding panel and wall panel paintings within the 'ihatsu-no-ma' (room in which monks' clothing and begging bowls are kept)to the north(rear)of the danna-no-ma room.
created by shoei kano.
8 renro sogyo-zu(images of lotus flowers,herons and fish among seaweed)(designated as a tsuketari)
small sliding panels below the altar within the buddhist image room.
important cultural properties
hojo(main hall)
teahouse(consisting of the kaiin-seki tearoom,masudoko-seki tearoom,mizuya and 2 six tatami mat size rooms)
color painting on silk of portrait of nagayoshi miyoshi
access
take the kyoto city bus from jr kyoto station to "daitoku-ji mae" bus stop(approximately 30 minutes)and walk.
