hokyo-in temple
hokyo-in temple is an independent buddhist temple belonging to the rinzai sect located in sagano,ukyo ward,kyoto city,kyoto prefecture.
its sango(honorific mountain prefix)is mt.zennyu.
the principal image is a wooden standing statue of the eleven-faced kannon.
it was the family temple of the second muromachi shogun,yoshiakira ashikaga,and southern imperial court supporter masatsura kusunoki.
history
hokyo-in temple was established as a place of prayer for emperor shirakawa during the heian period and originally named zennyu-ji temple.
the temple was restored during the northern and southern courts period by mokuan,a leading disciple of muso kokushi,and its name was changed to kanrin-ji temple by the second shogun of the ashikaga shogunate,yoshiakira ashikaga,who had become devoted to mokuan but the name was soon reverted to zennyu-ji temple.
southern imperial court supporter masatsura kusunoki.was also devoted to mokuan,and after being defeated by the ko no moronao/ko no moroyasu brothers of the ashikaga faction at the battle of shijonawate in hojo,kawachi province(modern-day shijonawate city,osaka prefecture)in 1348,mokuan respectfully buried his decapitated head within the temple grounds.
when masatsura's enemy,yoshiakira ashikaga,heard of masatsura's burial,it is said that he proclaimed 'following my own death,i wish to be laid to rest beside the grave of masatsura kusunoki at my beloved kanrin-ji temple(now hokyo-in temple),' and this wish was fulfilled soon after his death in 1367 when he was buried in a grave(hokyoin-to stupa)next to the grave(gorin-to stupa)of masatsura.
during the time of the eighth shogun,yoshimasa ashikaga,the temple name was renamed after 'hokyo-in,' the posthumous buddhist name of yoshiakira ashikaga.
address/access
9-1 minamichuin-cho,shakadomonzen,saga,ukyo ward,kyoto city
take the train to jr saga-arashiyama station and walk for 15 minutes.
take the kyoto city bus or kyoto bus toward 'daikakuji,' alight at 'sagashakado-mae' bus stop and walk for three minutes.
