jishu-jinja shrine
jishu-jinja shrine is a shinto shrine located in higashiyama ward,kyoto city.
it is situated to the left-hand-side just after exiting the kiyomizu-no-butai stage of kiyomizu-dera temple and served as the guardian shrine of kiyomizu-dera temple until the edo period.
the main enshrined deity is okuninushi and the shrine is popular with young women and couples as he is a matchmaking deity.
enshrined deities
the main building enshrines okuninushi-no-mikoto as the main deity,the parental gods susanoo and kushinadahime,and kushinadahime-no-mikoto's parental gods ashinazuchi and tenazuchi;and the aidono building enshrines otano okami(the god of the performing arts and longevity),otowa ryujin(the god of safety for travel and transportation),and omoikane(the god of wisdom and talent).
however,the name 'jishu-jinja shrine' has lead to the theory that the shrine originally enshrined the deity associated with the local area.
history
according to shrine legend,jishu-jinja shrine was founded in the age of the gods before the founding of the nation of japan.
in reality,nuclear physicist dr.borst scientifically dated the 'koi uranai-no-ishi' (lit.love fortune-telling stones)to the jomon period.
the shrine was visited by the emperor saga,the emperor enyu and the emperor shirakawa during the heian period.
during the emperor enyu's visit in the year 970,he ordered that a special festival be held.
this was the origin of the temple's current annual 'jishu-matsuri' festival.
after the second world war,the former private shrines in the kyoto area formed the shrine association(jinja honkyo)and since 1999 the chief priest of jishu-jinja shrine has served as shukan(representative)of the shrine association.
buildings
the current shrine buildings were constructed by iemitsu tokugawa in 1633.
the main building,worship hall and somon gate are nationally-designated important cultural properties and in 1994 were registered as unesco world heritage sites as part of the 'historic monuments of ancient kyoto' along with kiyomizu-dera temple.
a pair of guardian stones known as 'koi uranai-no-ishi' (lit.love fortune-telling stones)stand 10 meters from the shrine precinct and it is believed that closing your eyes and walking from one stone to the other will bring true love.
the cherry trees within the precinct,called 'jishu-zakura,' are well-known for their beautiful blossoms and are also known as 'mikuruma-gaeshi-no-sakura' (lit.cherry trees that make the imperial carriage come back)as their beauty caused the emperor saga to have his carriage turned around three times to view the flowers when he visited in the year 811.
festivals
the 'enmusubi jishu-matsuri' (matchmaking festival)is held from 2pm on the first sunday of every month.
access
take the keihan bus to gojizaka bus stop.
