beppyo jinja(shrines on the special list)
beppyo jinja refers to shrines designated and tracked by jinja-honcho(the association of shinto shrines).
since the public shrine ranking system(modern shrine ranking system)was eliminated due to the elimination of management of shrines by the state in 1946,this was specified to replace it in 1948.
after the elimination of the shrine ranking system,all shrines were regarded to be on equal footing(excluding ise-jingu shrine).
however,for old kankoku heisha(general term for kanpeisha and kokuheisha that were high rank shrines)and some large-scale shrines,it was decided that they would be treated separately based on 'regulation regarding the advance or retreat of executives and general staff' since treating them in the same way with general shrines were unfavorable in terms of the advance or retreat of shinto priesthood.
since the object shrines are listed in beppyo(appendix)of the official regulations,they are called 'shrines on the special list' (beppyo jinja).
beppyo jinja are treated separately as follows in terms of personnel affairs.
when they are above certain standards,they are allowed to be designated as gonguji under guji(chief of those who serves shrine,controls festivals and general affairs).
only people who are of meikai rank(for shinto priesthood)or above are designated as guji and gonguji(for general shrines,gon-seikai rank or above).
only people who are of seikai rank or above are designated as negi(shinto priest)(for general shrines,chokkai or above).
only people who are of gon-seikai rank or above are designated as gonnegi(assistant senior priests)(for general shrines,chokkai or above).
social status of guji and gonguji while they are in office is nikyu(second grade)except for those in tokkyu(special grade),ikkyu(first grade)・nikyu-jo(senior second grade).
designation and dismissal of guji and gonguji are not delegated to a chief of shrine agency in each administrative division of japan(direct designation and dismissal by tori in jinja-honcho).
though beppyo jinja were originally only the old kankoku heisha,a notification 'about selection of shrines specified in the special list' was issued in 1951,and standards to select shrines which are other than kankoku heisha and newly added in the special list were specified.
the standards are as follows.
history
situation of facilities related to shrines such as a main building of a shinto shrine and precincts,etc.
the number of regular shinto priests
financial situation during the last three years
the activities of a shrine
the number of reverent ujiko(shrine parishioners)and their distributed condition
due to the regulations,the number of beppyo jinja gradually increased mainly among old fukensha(prefectural shrines)and gokoku jinja shrines,and there are 353 of them as of 2006.
on the other hand,some shrines dissolved their inclusive relationship with jinja-honcho and stopped being beppyo jinja.
beppyo jinjya is not a rating system like the shrine ranking system;it is a system used only to classify shinto shrines based on shrine personnel matters.
however,shrines specified in beppyo are rather large-scale shrines having a main building,many precincts,and a fair number of shinto priests,etc.,and generally are considered to be a kind of grading.
because ise-jingu shrine is considered to be a special case,it is not included in the beppyo jinja or in the shrine ranking.
according to the 'shrine regulations,' the chief priest of the ise-jingu shrine is appointed and dismissed by imperial decision,and these regulations also state that the ise-jingu shrine is treated as a special case.
list of beppyo jinja
shikinai' is a shrine ranking for shikinai-sha(myojin-taisha shrine,kokushigenzai-sha shrine),and 'kindai' is a shrine ranking for the modern shrine ranking system(kantai kanpei taisha,kokuchu kokuhei chusha,gokoku-jinja shrine designated by a prewar home minister for nation protection).
since shrines,which were old kankoku heisha and covered under the jinja-honcho that was started in 1948,were originally beppyo jinja, 'their registration year' are uniformly indicated as being 1948.
for shrines which were the old kankoku heisha and comprehended by jinja-honcho in and after 1948,the year in which the inclusive relationship was established is indicated.
shrines which are the old kankoku heisha but not beppyo jinja
among the old kankoku heisha,shrines below were listed as not being beppyo jinja since they are not in an inclusive relationship with jinja-honcho.
shrines,for which 'the year of resolving the inclusive relationship' is 1946,are not in the inclusive relationship with jinja-honcho from the very beginning of the inauguration of jinja-honcho in 1946.
