ensho-ji temple
ensho-ji temple is a nunnery temple located in yama-cho,nara city.
sango(literally, "mountain name"),which is the title prefixed to the name of a buddhist temple,is fumonzan.
ensho-ji temple is a monzeki temple(a temple of high rank where members of imperial family and nobility enter the priesthood)which belongs to the myoshin-ji temple school of the rinzai sect called yamato three monzeki as well as chugu-ji temple in ikaruga-cho and hokke-ji temple in saho were.
the temple is also an iemoto(the head family of a school)of a flower arrangement school, 'yamamura goryu.'
another name for it is the yamamura goten palace.
it is said that ensho-ji temple was a model of 'gesshu-ji temple,' which often appears in yukio mishima's novel, "hojo no umi" (the sea of fertility).
(not available to visitors as it is a closed-door temple.)
origin and history
in 1640,princess bunchi(childhood name ume-no-miya),who was the first daughter of emperor gomizunoo,became daitsu bunchi(knowledgeable person,bunchi)after becoming a nun at the age of 22,regarding buccho kokushi(the most reverend priest of the principal buddha)as her mentor.
in 1641,daitsu bunchi made a thatched hut in shugakuin,kyoto.
in 1656,it was named yashima gosho(yashima imperial palace)after moving to yashima village,sonokami-no-kori county,yamato province,which was donated 200 koku(55.6 cubic meters)(later increased to 300 koku(83.4 cubic meters))and sen-ryo(a thousand-ryo)of gold by the government with support of her stepmother,chugu tofukumonin(a daughter of hidetada tokugawa)since the hut was forced to relocate due to building shugakuin rikyu(shugakuin rikyu imperial villa)by emperor.
in 1669,it moved again to its current location.
successive monzeki(imperial priests)
bunchi,shinnyo kaiin daitsu daishi,the daughter of emperor gomizunoo
bunki,bodai shinin daikanni daizenshi,the daughter of emperor reigen
bun o,seijo-in daijakuni daizenshi,the daughter of emperor reigen
bunko,kankishinin daitetsuni daizenni,an adopted child of emperor sakuramachi(arisugawa no miya)
bunjo,joo-in daikini daizenni,an adopted child of emperor kokaku(arisugawa no miya)
bunshu,saishoshinin daichini daizenni,an adopted child of emperor komei(fushimi no miya)
bunko,kogonshinin shuzanni daizenshi,an adopted daughter of tadahiro konoe(the former duke)
bunsen,daijishinin jozanni daizenshi,a daughter of saneyasu yamamoto(the former viscount),jozan
ryojun murakami
buddhist temple
hondo(main hall)(entsu-den hall)
cultural properties designated by nara prefecture,thatching a roof with grass
shoin(reception room)
shinden-zukuri style(architecture representative of a nobleman's residence in the heian period),with an entrance of karahafu(cusped gable)
shinden(emperor's residence)
said to be built with old materials of kyoto imperial palace shishinden hall.
oku-goten(the inner palace)
yokian
cultural property
wooden statue of nyoirin kannon
honzon(principal image of buddha)of ensho-ji temple
the statue of sozo(earthen image)of emperor gomizunoo
the artifacts of yamamura abandoned temple in obitoge,yamato province
important cultural property,placed in the care of the nara national museum
location
1312,yama-cho,nara city,630-8434
access
five minuites walk from 'ensho-ji mae' bus station bound for yamamura-cho from jr nara station/kintetsu nara station.
