ujigami-jinja shrine
ujigami-jinja shrine is a shinto shrine located in uji city,kyoto prefecture.
it is designated a unesco world heritage site as one of the 'historic monuments of ancient kyoto.'
it enshrines uji no waki no iratsuko no mikoto,emperor ojin and emperor nintoku.
it is a counterpart of uji-jinja shrine.
history
both the time of the shrine's founding and the details of its origin are clear.
it stands close to uji-jinja shrine and before the meiji restoration both formed uji rikyu myojin shrine known as hachiman-sha shrine of which uji-jinja shrine comprised the lower sub-shrine while ujigami-jinja shrine was known as the upper main shrine.
the 'jinmyocho(list of deities and shrines)of the engishiki' (book or regulations of the engi era)refers to uji-jinja shrine and ujigami-jinja shrine as 'the two uji-jinja shrines in uji county,yamashiro province.'
when construction of the nearby byodo-in temple was completed,these shrines came to serve as its guardian shrines.
in february 2004,dendrochronological studies conducted by the nara research institute for cultural properties and uji city dated the main sanctuary to around 1060,making it the oldest surviving piece of shinto shrine architecture,and leading to the belief that it has a deep connection to byodo-in temple which was founded in 1052.
precincts
the main sanctuary dating from the latter part of the heian period is believed to be the oldest surviving example of such a building(a cover building can be seen from outside and inside stand three sanctuary buildings).
the worship hall which dates from the first part of the kamakura period and is said to have been relocated from uji rikyu(uji imperial villa)retains a shinden-zukuri style.
the natural spring that emerges within the precincts is called kirihara mizu)and is one of the seven great springs of uji.
cultural properties
national treasures
main sanctuary
worship hall
important cultural properties
main sanctuary of the kasuga-jinja auxiliary shrine
four door paintings in the main sanctuary
festival
the shrine parishioners of makishima-machi,uji city hold an annual festival on may 5.
