anashinimasu-hyozu-jinja shrine
anashinimasu-hyozu-jinja shrine is a shinto shrine located in sakurai city,nara prefecture.
it is a shikinai-sha(a shrine listed in the engishiki[an ancient book of laws and regulations compiled during the engi era listing shrines]),and designated a prefectural shrine according to the old shrine ranking system.
it is comprised of anashinimasu-hyozu-jinja shrine(myojin-taisha shrine[shrine enshrining deities under the ritsuryo system]),makimukunimasu-wakamitama-jinja shrine(shikinai-taisha shrine[first-ranked shrine listed in engishiki laws])and anashi-daihyozu-jinja shrine(shikinai-taisha shrine)which were merged during the muromachi period to form the current anashinimasu-hyozu-jinja shrine.
the site where the shrine now stands was that of anashi-daihyozu-jinja shrine.
history
there is a theory that the original anashinimasu-hyozu-jinja shrine was founded by yamatohime-no-mikoto in the year 28 bc enshrining a guardian deity of food presented to the emperor.
another theory suggests that it was founded by the emperor keiko for worshiping yachihoko-no-kami(other name of okuninushi[chief god of izumo in southern honshu island,japan])under the name hyozu-no-okami.
the old shrine is believed to have been at 'mt.yutsukigatake.'
there are three theories that 'mt.yutsukigatake' refers to one of mt.ryuo,mt.anashi or mt.makimuku.
hyozu-no-kami,' the enshrined deity of the old anashinimasu-hyozu-jinja shrine is now enshrined in the central hall of the current anashinimasu-hyozu-jinja shrine,and the shintai(object of worship housed in a shinto shrine and believed to contain the spirit of a deity)is a mirror.
the current anashinimasu-hyozu-jinja shrine maintains that hyozu-no-kami is miketsukami(god of food).
however,there are other theories that hyozu-no-kami is another deity such as amenouzume,susano(deity in japanese mythology),amanotomimuchi-no-mikoto,takeminakata-no-kami,izuhoko-no-mikoto(the spiritual emanation of okuninushi),or kunitama.
kushinadahime is identified with 'wakamitama-no-kami,' the enshrined deity of makimukunimasu-wakamitama-jinja shrine.
it is now enshrined in the right hall of the current anashinimasu-hyozu-jinja shrine,and the shintai is a magadama(a comma-shaped bead)and a bell.
the shrine was originally located at mt.makimuku.
there is another theory advocating that wakamitama-no-kami indicates wakumusubi.
according to "shosoin monjo" (document collection of the nara period kept in shosoin),the above-mentioned two shrines held a festival to honor deities in 730,and were conferred the divine rank of junior fifth rank in 859.
it is uncertain when anashi-daihyozu-jinja shrine was founded.
daihyozu-no-kami,' the enshrined deity of anashi-daihyozu-jinja shrine is now enshrined in the left hall of the current anashinimasu-hyozu-jinja shrine,and the shintai is a sword.
as for the question of which deity is enshrined as daihyozu-no-kami,yachihoko-no-kami okuninushi),susano-no-mikoto,ame-no-uzume(one of the female gods in japanese mythology)and amenohiboko-no-mikoto are regarded as the most likely candidates.
from around the medieval period,anashinimasu-hyozu-jinja shrine was called anashi-kamisha shrine(literally,upper anashi-jinja shrine),while anashi-daihyozu-jinja shrine was called anashi-shimosha shrine(literally,lower anashi-jinja shrine).
after makimukunimasu-wakamitama-jinja shrine and anashi-kamisha shrine were burned down in the onin war,these two shrines were merged with anashi-shimosha shrine(anashi-daihyozu-jinja shrine).
designated as a village shrine in 1873,anashinimasu-hyozu-jinja shrine was promoted to a prefectural shrine in 1928.
sumo-jinja shrine enshrining nomi no sukune,who is believed to be the soshin(ancestor honored as god)of sumo wrestling,is an auxiliary shrine.
