yoshida-jinja shrine
yoshida-jinja shrine is a shrine on mt.yoshida,in kaguraoka-cho,sakyo ward,kyoto city.
the deities
takemikazuchi-no-mikoto(kasuga-no-kami),futsunushi-no-kami(iwainushi-no-mikoto),ama-no-koyane-no-mikoto,and hime-no-kami are enshrined.
history
it began in 859,when fujiwara no yamakage brought the four deities from kasuga taisha shrine in nara city to be the tutelary deities of the family.
they later came to be revered as tutelary deities of the whole fujiwara clan of heian-kyo.
although it is not listed in the engi-shiki jimmyo-cho(it is a shikigesha),it was in charge of official functions of the imperial court starting in 987,and in 991was included in the 19 shrines offering,which was a predecessor to the 22 shrines.
since the kamakura period,the urabe clan(later the yoshida clan)became the hereditary priests.
during the bummei years(1469-1487)at the end of the muromachi period,kanetomo yoshida founded yoshida shinto(yuiitsu shinto),building massha shrine saijosho daigengu on the grounds as its focal point in 1484.
around that time kanemi yoshida moved hasshinden(no longer present),which was in the jingikan from the days of the old ritsuryo system,to the funeral hall on the grounds,and used it as a replacement for the jingikan.
the yoshida household had authority to appoint priests to shrines nationally,and had great influence in shinto circles until the meiji period.
festivals
famous for setsubun,february 2-4
facilities
sessha shrine
wakamiyasha(enshrines ame-no-oshikumone-no-mikoto)
wakamiya shrine,in kasuga-taisha shrine also enshrines ame-no-oshikumone-no-mikoto.
kaguraoka-sha(deities:ikazuchi-no-kami,oyamatsumi,okami-no-kami)
the local landlord deity,hatata-gami,is thought to be listed in the engi-shiki jimmyo-cho.
the rei-sai festival is september 23rd;and shinko-sai is held on the last sunday in october.
massha shrine
saijosho daigengu(deity:amatsukami-kunitsukami-yaoyorozu-no-kami)
it enshrines all 3132 deities of the engi shikinai-sha shrines,which are called the amatsukami-kunitsukami-yaoyorozu-no-kami.
designated an important cultural asset,it has an exceedingly unique shape,with its octagonal main hall and hexagonal back room.
kamitatsu-sha shrine(deity:kanetomo yoshida/kamitatsu okami)
built in eisho 10(1513)
the rei-sai festival is on february 19.
imamiya-sha shrine(deities:okuninush,ikazuchi-no-kami,susanoo)
in the hall and on the grounds,there are stones for the four gods.
sorei-sha shrine(deities:spirits of patrons)
kaso-jinja shrine(deities:tajimamori,join rin)
worshiped by candy merchants as the god of candy(kaso).
yamakage-jinja shrine(deities:fujiwara no yamakage,together with ebisu).
fujiwara no yamakage was the founder of yoshida-jinja shrine,and a chef.
he has been worshiped as a god of cooking.
sanja-sha shrine(deities:munakata-sanjojin,kanayamahiko-no-kami,sugawara no michizane)
takenaka-inari-jinja shrine(deities:uka-no-mitama,sarutahiko,ame-no-uzume)
originally was an independent shrine.
it became a massha shrine of yoshida-jinja shrine.
setsumatsu-sha shrine:inari-sha shrine,50+inari-zuka
setsumatsu-sha shrine:tenmangu-sha shrine(deity:sugawara no michizane)
and many others.
other facilities
yoshida kindergarten
cultural assets
buildings
important cultural assets:yoshida-jinja shrine saijosho daigengu
constructed around 1601
designation:july 31,1902
others
adjacent to kyoto university yoshida campus
an urban legend has it that students who go to yoshida-jinja shrine to pray for passing the kyoto university entrance exams will always fail.
transportation
closest station:keihan demachiyanagi station
parking available
