fujinomori-jinja shrine
fujinomori-jinja shrine is a shinto shrine located in fushimi ward,kyoto city.
it was classified as a fusha(a prefectural shrine)under the former modern shrine ranking system.
it is renowned for the kakeuma shinji(acrobatic horseback riding festival)held on may 5 and as the birthplace of the iris festival.
the hydrangea garden in which over 3,500 of the flowers can be seen is open in june and july.
enshrined deities
the main sanctuary(center shrine)enshrines the main deities of susanoo,wakeikazuchi no mikoto,yamato takeru,the emperor ojin,the empress jingu,takeuchi no sukune and the emperor nintoku;the eastern sanctuary(eastern shrine)enshrines the emperor tenmu and the emperor sudo jinkei(imperial prince toneri);the western sanctuary(western shrine)enshrines the emperor sudo(imperial prince sawara),the imperial prince iyo and the imperial princess inoue.
history
there are many theories regarding the year of built and enshrined deities.
according to shrine legend,fujinomori-jinja shrine originated in the year 203 after the triumphant return of empress jingu from the military invasion of the three kingdoms of korea when she placed in a mound the battle flags and military equipment at fujinomori,fukakusanosato,yamashiro province and held a religious service.
the deities enshrined at that time are the 7 kami currently enshrined within the main sanctuary.
what was then the area of fujinomori is now fushimi inari-taisha shrine.
fujinomori-jinja shrine was relocated in its current site as inari-shin became enshrined at fujinomori.
therefore the people living in the area surrounding fushimi inari-taisha shrine remain parishioners of fujinomori-jinja shrine.
the current site of fujinomori-jinja shrine was originally that of mahataki-jinja shrine(present-day jonan-gu shrine)and at that time mahataki-jinja shrine was relocated to the site on which it currently stands.
the eastern sanctuary was founded as a shrine enshrining the emperor sudo jinkei(imperial prince toneri)at fujinoo in the year 759 and was originally named fujinoo-sha shrine.
it merged with fujinomori-jinja shrine in 1438.
the western sanctuary was founded as a shrine enshrining imperial prince sawara at tsukamoto in 800 and merged with fujinomori-jinja shrine in 1470.
imperial prince sawara revered this shrine during his life.
when a revolt broke out in mutsu province,imperial prince sawara served as general of the forces sent to quell the uprising and he prayed for victory at the shrine.
the army departed for battle on the 5th day of the 5th month and it is for this reason that the kakeuma shinji(acrobatic horseback riding festival)is held on may 5.
cultural properties
important cultural properties
hachiman-gu honden branch shrine within the main precinct:dating from the muromachi period.
as with the daishogun-sha branch shrine,this branch shrine is said to have been built by yoshinori ashikaga,6th shogun of the muromachi bakufu(japanese feudal government headed by a shogun).
daishogun-sha honden branch shrine within the main precinct:dating from the muromachi period.
a pair of wooden koma-inu(guardian dogs)
purple suit of armor
access
5 minutes walk from 'jr fujimori station' on the jr nara line or 'sumizome station' on the keihan electric railway main line.
