daishin-ji temple
daishin-ji temple is a buddhist temple located in takimoto-cho,tenri city,nara prefecture.
the sango(literally, "mountain name"),which is the title prefixed to the name of a buddhist temple,is yamato momoosan.
the principal image of buddha is shaka nyorai(shakamuni butsu).
this temple used to be called momoosan rengeoin ryufuku-ji temple and belong to the shingon sect until the prohibition order of buddhism in the meiji period.
history
according to the temple legend,this temple was founded by gien in the wado era.
the temple buildings are said to have been maintained by gyoki thereafter.
later,when restored by kukai,it became an ascetic exercise hall for shingon esoteric buddhism,and was called momoosan rengeoin ryufuku-ji temple of the shingon sect.
although at the height of its prosperity,it became a large buddhist temple possessing 100-koku(a measure of wealth based on rice),and 16 priest houses,operations were temporarily ceased due to the prohibition order of buddhism on april 15,1868.
later on,following a miracle involving the statue of fudo myoo,a stone statue made by gyoki,in july 1918 they constructed a fodo-do hall on the former site of the amida-do hall in ryufuku-ji temple and renamed the temple yamato momoosan daishin-ji temple.
after that,present-day main hall was constructed in 1961.
grounds
stone statue of fudo-myoo-on the mountain road.
stone statue of zizo bosatsu-on the mountain road.
stone statue of benzaitennyo-on the way to the mountain peak.
main hall
fudo-do hall
stone statue of fudo myoo-made by gyoki bosatsu.
small shrine of daishin-ji temple-on the top of mt.momoo(mt.kunimi).
onyama no okami-the letters '御山大神' (the god's name)are inscribed in the center of the iwakura(dwelling place of a god,usually in reference to a large rock).
memorial services
every day 8:00-9:30
memorial services are held in the morning.
(anyone is welcome to attend the service.)
on the 8th of each month
13:00-14:30
a memorial service for the regular monthly festival is held.
(anyone is welcome to attend the service.)
on the 28th of each month
a memorial service for the festival day is held in the fudo-do hall.
(on an irregular basis)
annual events
gantan nenshi sai(the first day of the new year festival)(january 1)
nenshi sai(beginning of the new year festival)(january 2)
setsubun sai(the traditional end of winter festival)(february 3)
haru no higan sai(vernal equinox festival)(may 21)
ohana matsuri(buddhist mass celebrating buddha's birthday;literally, "flower festival")(april 8)
open fall festival(the 3rd sunday in july)hosted by tenri city tourist association.
obon matsuri(a festival of the dead or buddhist all soul's day)(august 8).
aki no higan sai(autumnal equinox festival)(september 23).
access
take jr sakurai line or kintetsu tenri line and get off at tenri station,take nara kotsu bus and get off at kamitakimoto,then walk on the mountain path for 20 minutes.
15 minutes car ride from tenri station.
15 minutes walk on the mountain path.
free parking is available.
about 75 minutes walk from tenri station(15 minutes walk on the mountain path.)
neaby attractions
isonokami-jingu shrine
momonoo fall
