takeisao-jinja shrine
takeisao-jinja shrine is a shinto shrine located halfway up of mt.funaoka in kita ward,kyoto city.
the main deity is nobunaga oda who is enshrined alongside his son nobutada oda.
it was ranked as a bekkaku kanpeisha(a special government shrine)under the old shrine classification system.
the correct reading of the shrine name is 'takeisao-jinja' but it is generally read 'kenkun-jinja,' and the shrine is commonly known as 'kenkun-san.'
the shrine has formerly been named takeoda-sha shrine and kenkun-sha shrine.
history
in 1869,the decision was made to build a shrine honoring nobunaga oda who promoted the unification the country and the restoration the court council during the sengoku period(period of warring states).
in the following year,kenkun-sha shrines(presently renamed kenkun-jinja shrine(tendo city))were constructed at the tokyo estate of nobunaga oda's descendants and in the oda family's former territory of tendo city in yamagata prefecture.
these shrines were classified as a bekkaku kanpeisha in 1875.
the current location on mt.funaoka is the site of the genbu god of heian-kyo and was chosen by hideyoshi toyotomi to be the place of nobunaga oda's mausoleum.
it was decided that takeisao-jinja shrine would be relocated from tokyo to mt.funaoka and the move was completed in 1880 when the main building construction was finished.
cultural properties
important cultural properties
katana sword,no inscription(yoshimoto samonji)
konito-odoshi domaru(an armor sewn with dark blue thread)
shinchoko-ki(biography of nobunaga oda):the manuscript written in gyuichi ota's own hand
registered tangible cultural properties
main sanctuary
worship hall
noritosha(prayer hall)
connecting corridor
see-through fence
shinsenjo(building for the preparation of food for the gods)
saikiko(storehouse for equipment used in rituals)
chozusha(building for cleaning hands and rinsing mouth)
guesthouse
shrine office
otorii
festivals
the funaoka taisai festival is held on october 19 in commemoration of nobunaga oda's arrival in kyoto in 1568.
access
take the kyoto city bus to "kenkun-jinja mae" bus stop and walk.
