tenju-an temple
tenju-an temple is a sub-temple located within the precinct of rinzai sect nanzen-ji school daihonzan(head temple)nanzen-ji temple in sakyo ward,kyoto city.
history
kokan shiren founded tenju-an temple in 1339 as the burial place of mukan fumon,a founder nanzen-ji temple.
the temple fell into ruin during the sengoku period(period of warring states)but was restored in 1602 by military commander and poet yusai hosokawa.
buildings
hojo(abbot's chamber)
a shingled roof building restored by yusai hosokawa of which the interior is decorated with wall and sliding panel paintings by tohaku hasegawa.
wall and sliding panel paintings(tohaku hasegawa)(important cultural properties)
paintings of zen sect founders:these images depicting zen teachings painted in a simplified style by tohaku hasegawa during the later years of his life display his unique style.
paintings of the four sages of mount shang:depictions of the four elderly sages who fled from the turbulence of the late qin dynasty to mt.shang riding on donkeys and accompanied by servants in paintings for which wall and sliding door panels with the same title can be found at the shinju-an sub-temple of daitoku-ji temple.
gardens
hojo(abbot's quarters)front garden(eastern garden)
this dry landscape garden in which white sand is traversed by diamond-shaped stepping stones surrounded by a moss border exhibits the straight line arrangement of the cut stones developed by enshu kobori.
shoin(study hall)southern garden
this japanese style garden with a path around a central pond features thick japanese cedar and maple trees and retains its northern and southern court period appearance despite having been renovated during the meiji period.
cultural properties
important cultural properties
color painting on silk portrait of mukan fumon:a self-inscribed portrait of nanzen-ji temple founding priest mukan fumon and the only surviving image of him to have been painted during is lifetime.
monochrome ink and light colored painting on silk portrait of shiichi kokushi(enni):a self-inscribed portrait of enni,mukan fumon's master,which is believed to be the earliest self-inscribed portrait of him.
2 color paintings on silk portraits of heiden jikin:portraits of heiden jikin,the dharma heir of dozan genjo(mukan fumon's dharma heir)of tofuku-ji temple painted in a detailed style and depicting him near the end of his life.
color painting on silk portrait of yusai hosokawa and color painting on silk portrait of yusai hosokawa's wife(important cultural properties):a portrait of military commander and man of culture yusai hosokawa and his wife,of which that of yusai hosokawa has been inscribed by ishin suden,a monk who had the highest trust of ieyasu tokugawa.
32 hojo(abbot's quarters)wall and sliding panel paintings
16 monochrome ink paintings on paper zenki-zu(images of acts which led to enlightenment)(main central room)
8 monochrome ink paintings on paper shozan shiko-zu(images of the four sages of mount shang)(upper room)
8 monochrome ink paintings on paper shokaku-zu(images of pine trees and cranes)(lower room)
other cultural properties
tenbanofu:a work of calligraphy by renowned mid-edo period painter and calligrapher ike no taiga with power yet has an air of gentleness that makes it a masterpiece among his many works.
nine-strip buddhist surplice:a nine-strip buddhist surplice said to have been owned by mukan fumon and received from his master during his time in song dynasty china.
access
walk from keage station on the tozai line of the kyoto city subway.
