nishiki tenman-gu shrine
nishiki tenman-gu shrine is a shinto shrine located at nishikikoji street and shin kyogoku street,nakagyo ward,kyoto city.
it enshrines tenjin(sugawara no michizane).
the shrine is situated at the eastern end of nishiki market,known as the kitchen of kyoto,and offers the blessings of both academic success and prosperous trade.
history
nishiki tenman-gu shrine was established as a guardian god shrine enshrining tenman tenjin at 'kanki-ji temple' which was founded in 1003 when 'sugawara-in,' the former residence of sugawara no michizane's father sugawara no koreyoshi,was relocated to the site of minamoto no toru's mansion, 'kawara no in.'
in 1587,it was relocated to its current site at the eastern end of nishikikoji street along with the temple as part of hideyoshi toyotomi's city plan.
it is from the name of this area that the shrine gets its name 'nishiki tenman-gu shrine.'
the meiji period separation of buddhism and shintoism led to kanki-ji temple being moved to higashiyama gojo while shrine remained in place.
facilities
the torii(shrine gate)on the nishikikoji-dori street between the teramachi-dori street and shinkyogoku street was built in 1935 but two buildings were later constructed on either side and parts of the torii protrude into the buildings.
the parts that protrude into the buildings can be seen from the path just past the windows of the buildings.
there is a 'karakuri-omikuji' (mechanical fortune-telling slip dispenser)in front of the shrine office.
when the popular machine is approached,kagura music plays and a mechanical lion begins dancing,and if a coin is inserted and the type of fortune-telling slip(six varieties including english,japanese and english,children's,etc.)selected,the lion will dance to the kagura music while dispensing the fortune-telling slip.
the sub-shrines within the precincts include the shiogama-jinja shrine that enshrines minamoto no toru,hinodeinari-jinja shrine and shirodayu-jinja shrine.
a spring named 'nishiki no mizu' gushes from within the temple grounds and attracts many people who come to drink the water.
