keishun-in temple
keishun-in temple is a sub-temple within the precinct of rinzai sect daihonzan(head temple)myoshin-ji temple located in hanazono,ukyo ward,kyoto city.
along with taizo-in temple and doshin-in temple,it is one of the sub-temples that are open to the public all year round.
history
in 1598,hidenori tsuda,the second son of nobutada oda(the eldest son of nobunaga oda),founded kensho-in temple and named suian sokiku as founding priest.
after the death of hidenori,sadamasa ishiko of a powerful clan in mino province invited keinan shusen and repaired the buildings in 1632 in order to hold a memorial ceremony on the 50th anniversary of his father's death,and also took one character from the posthumous buddhist name of his father, 'tensenshukei daizenjomon,' and his mother, 'shoinmyoshun daishi,' to give the temple the new name of keishun-in temple.
buildings
hojo(main hall)(list of cultural properties designated by kyoto prefecture)
the single-storey building with a hip-and-gable pantile roof was constructed in 1631 and the interior is decorated by sliding screen paintings by sansetsu kano,a disciple of sanraku kano.
of these the sansetsu kano piece entitled 'konpekimatsu mikazuki-zu' was once attached to a buddhist altar but converted into a sliding screen painting.
kihaku-an teahouse
a teahouse relocated along with the study in 1631 from nagahama-jo castle(omi province)of which sadamasa ishiko was lord.
it is a deep-plan three and three-quarter tatami mat size teahouse with a shingled gable roof at its eastern side,alongside which runs a narrow aisle-like area.
it is reputed to be of the yonen-ryu tea ceremony school.
pursuits such as poetry and the tea ceremony were a hindrance to the asceticism practiced at myoshin-ji temple and were therefore strictly prohibited but the teahouse was built hidden in the corner of the building and allowed tea to be enjoyed in secret.
study(cultural property designated by kyoto prefecture)
kuri(food preparation building)(cultural property designated by kyoto prefecture)
omote-mon gate(cultural property designated by kyoto prefecture)
garden
the garden was created during the edo period and has been nationally designated a place of scenic beauty and a historic site.
seijo-no-niwa garden
courtyard garden in the north of the hojo with a dry waterfall created in a corner using large and unusual rocks from kishu province.
wabi-no-niwa garden
a tea garden leading from the study to the kihaku-an teahouse that is separated into the inner tea garden and outer tea garden by a baikenmon gate and a bolted gate and featuring a hidden moss-covered stone wash basin.
shii-no-niwa garden
a tea garden style space on the eastern side of the hojo with stepping stones extending from a baikenmon gate.
shinnyo-no-niwa garden
a garden on the southern side of the hojo featuring a beautifully balanced variety of flowers including satsuki azaleas,kirishima azaleas and japanese andromedas.
cultural properties
calligraphy by wuming huixing(important cultural property)
calligraphy by fayun xianji
calligraphy by gulin qingmao
calligraphy by shuho myocho
goryeo ido tea bowl
annam hand-washing water container
sen no rikyu's tea scoop
sen no sotan's tea scoop
address and access
11 hanazono teranonaka-cho,ukyo ward,kyoto city
take the jr sagano line to 'hanazono station' (kyoto prefecture)and walk.
take the kyoto city bus from the kyoto bus terminal at kyoto station to 'myoshin-ji kita-mon mae' (approximately 40 minutes)and walk.
take the keifuku electric railroad kitano line to 'myoshin-ji station' and walk.
