hongan-ji temple
hongan-ji is the name of a buddhist temple.
there are some temples with the same name,hongan-ji,throughout japan,but the name usually indicates the hongan-ji temple which is one of the head temples of jodo shinshu sect(the true pure land sect of buddhism)(shinshu sect).
the jigo(temple name)of jodo shinshu sect is said to have originated from 'kuon jitsujo amida hongan-ji temple,' which was granted as an imperial gift for shinran's mausoleum hall by emperor kameyama in 13 century.
nishi hongan-ji temple
it is the head temple of jodo shinshu sect hongan-ji school located at honganjimonzen-cho,horikawa-dori hanayacho-sagaru,shimogyo ward,kyoto city.
the formal name is hongan-ji temple.
higashi hongan-ji temple
it is the head temple of shinshu sect otani school located at tokiwa-cho,shichijo agaru,karasuma-dori,shimogyo ward,kyoto city.
the formal name is shinshu-honbyo mausoleum(the formal name had been 'hongan-ji' temple till 1987).
higashi hongan-ji temple(taito ward,tokyo)
it is the head temple of jodo shinshu sect higashi hongan-ji school located at 1 chome,nishiasakusa,taito ward,tokyo.
the formal name is jodo shinshu sect higashi hongan-ji school head temple,higashi hongan-ji temple.
due to the impact by the o higashi-sodo strife,it seceded and separated from the shinshu sect otani school.
refer to the followings for predecessor temples of higashi hongan-ji and nishi hongan-ji temples.
tenma betsuin branch temple of higashi hongan-ji temple
in 1585,as a result of making peace with hideyoshi toyotomi,kennyo left saginomori hongan-ji temple and moved to osaka tenma(kita ward,osaka city(osaka city)).
sagimori betsuin branch temple of hongan-ji temple
in 1581,the eleventh chief priest,kennyo,who left ishiyama hongan-ji temple in osaka as a result of making peace with nobunaga oda,stayed in the temple and became a base of jodo shinshu sect.
ishiyama hongan-ji temple
in 1497,it was built in ishiyama,settsu province(chuo ward,osaka city(osaka city))and became a head temple after knocking down yamashina hongan-ji temple in the time of shonyo,the 10th chief priest.
yamashina hongan-ji temple
in 1483,rennyo,the eighth chief priest founded the temple in yamashina(yamashina ward,kyoto city).
