jisso-in temple
jisso-in temple is a buddhist temple located in iwakura,sakyo ward,kyoto city.
the temple is independent(formerly belonged to the jimon school of the tendai sect),its kaiki(founding priest)was joki and it is dedicated to the principal image of fudo myoo(a kamakura period wooden statue).
it is one of the monzeki temples(a temple in which the head priest was traditionally a member of the imperial family or regent family).
it is also known as 'iwakura jisso-in temple.'
summary
jisso-in temple was founded by high buddhist priest joki sojo(sojo is any of three grades of the highest rank in the hierarchy of monks in most buddhist sects)in 1229 during the kamakura period.
it was originally situated in what is now the murasakino area of kita ward,kyoto city but was relocated to its current location in order to escape the onin war.
as a monzeki temple,the successive head priests who served at the temple were related to the imperial family.
the main hall was formerly the palace of the wife of emperor higashiyama,empress dowager joshumonin,and the four-legged gate and entranceway were also relocated from the imperial palace.
tomomi iwakura also briefly resided at the temple during the last days of the tokugawa government and the records of the secret meetings held at the time still remain.
there are both a chisen-kaiyushiki garden,japanese style garden with a path around a central pond and spring,and a dry landscape garden,a hill-and stream garden landscape without water.
the pond of the former is inhabited by the rhacophorus arboreus species of frog.
the temple is a place where visitors go to view the new green leaves and red autumn leaves,and the unique black floor which reflects the surrounding scenery is also known as "the green leaf floor" or "the red leaf floor".
cultural properties
letter written by emperor goyozei in the phonetic symbols of the japanese syllabary(important cultural property)
kano school screen and wall paintings
stone lantern created by the late edo period artist ganku 'image of the legendary chinese tang dynasty monks hanshan and shide'
jissho-in temple diary
a diary written by successive head priests that has never been removed from the temple
it is extremely valuable as a historical record spanning 260 years.
