ikaruga-jinja shrine
ikaruga-jinja shrine is a shinto shrine in ikoma-gun,nara prefecture.
it is located on mt.tenma to the north east of horyu-ji temple and enshrines sugawara no michizane.
the shrine was one of the four chinju-sha shrines(shinto shrine on buddhist temple grounds dedicated to the tutelary deity of the area)of horyu-ji temple and regarded as a guardian god which protected against kimon(the northeastern(unlucky)direction,person or thing to be avoided)for the temple,and even today,it has close ties to horyu-ji temple.
history
there is a written record that during the tengyo era(938-947),tansho,the chief priest of horyu-ji temple and member of sugawara clan,first enshrined sugawara no michizane before a priest named keiyu constructed the main building of the shrine in 1324.
the shrine was originally located at the western base of mt.tenma and had a hall called nyoho kyodo(the sutra hall)in its precinct,but it was burned down during kanbun era(1661-1672).
it is said that after the reconstruction of the shrine building in 1668,it was moved to the top of the same mountain in 1725 where it stands today due to a flood disaster.
in 1869,sosha myojin,gosho myojin and hakusan gongen,which were enshrined in the precinct of horyu-ji temple,were transferred to the shrine to be re-enshrined.
shrine buildings in the precinct
sosha myojin used to be enshrined to the northwest of horyu-ji temple,the building of which was constructed in 1153.
gosho myojin are the grand guardian gods of toin(east precinct)of horyu-ji temple which are said to have been first enshrined in 1218,and the gods enshrined there are sumiyoshi god and four kasuga gods.
there is also a theory that gosho myojin were identified as five gods of heguri-jinja shrine located in heguri-gun in "engishiki jinmyocho" (a register of shrines in japan).
other
the waniguchi(a metal gong hanging at the front of hall in a temple)in kanno-do hall located in murotsu,yamazoe-mura,nara prefecture originally belonged to ikaruga-jinja shrine,and it has an inscription of the year 1437.
