nagi-jinja shrine
nagi-jinja shrine is a shinto shrine located in mibu,nakagyo ward,kyoto city.
it is also referred to as moto gionsha.
the shikinaisha(shrine listed in the register of shrines and deities in the book of regulations of the engi era)hayabusa-jinja shrine was relocated to the precinct during the taisho period(1912-1926).
it is worshipped as a shrine for warding off evil.
nagi-jinja shrine
the main deity enshrined at nagi-jinja shrine is susanoo,which is enshrined with ukano mitama,izanami and the emperor ojin.
legend has it that the shrine was founded in the year 876 when the divided deity gozu tenno(susanoo no mikoto)was transferred from hiromine-jinja shrine in harima province and a chineki-sai(ritual to dispel evil spirits)was held during which the portable shrine in which the deity was being transported was placed and enshrined in a forest in nagi.
when the divine spirit of gozu tenno was later enshrined in yasaka and the current yasaka-jinja shrine founded,it is said that the residents of nagi created decorative umbrellas adorned by flowers,shook spears and played musical instruments as the portable shrine was transported to yasaka-an event which is believed to be the origin of the gion festival.
it is this that has led the temple to become referred to as 'moto gion-sha' (lit.gion origin shrine).
the annual festival is held on may 17.
hayabusa-jinja shrine
hayabusa-jinja shrine enshrines takemikazuchi as the main deity alongside futsunushi no kami.
however the historical provincial record gives the enshrined deity as 'hayafusa no kami.'
this ancient shrine is listed in the engishiki(book of regulations of the engi era)jinmyocho(register of shrines and deities)as 'hayabuza-jinja shrine enshrining one deity at shijo in kyoto' and is classified as a taisha.
the engishiki jinmyocho details three shrines enshrining three deities but the other two have since closed.
it was originally located at tako yakushi-bo castle(in present-day goshonouchi-cho,mibu,nakagyo ward).
the shrine was granted the rank of jugoinoge(junior fifth rank,lower grade)in the year 860 and had ascended to the rank of jushiinoge(junior fourth rank,lower grade)by the year 943.
during the edo period,the word 'hayabusa' (meaning 'falcon')became corrupted to 'hayakusa' (with 'kusa' meaning a type of skin disease)and it came to be believed that the shrine had the ability to cure such ailments.
hayabusa-jinja shrine was relocated to its current site within the precinct of nagi-jinja shrine in 1918.
the annual festival is held on november 17.
