sensho-ji temple
sensho-ji temple is a buddhist temple belonging to the nichiren sho sect in fushimi-ku ward,kyoto city,kyoto prefecture.
its sango(literally, "mountain name"),which is the title prefixed to the name of a buddhist temple is hokozan(mt.hoko).
origin and history
on march 18,2006,a buddhist service was held to celebrate the construction of the temple and the installation of the buddhist statue.
the kaiki(founding patron)was nichinyo shonin,68th head priest of nichiren sho sect sohonzan(head temple)taiseki-ji temple.
the principal image housed within the main hall is a board mandala transcribed in november 2005 before nikken shonin retired as 67th head priest of nichiren sho sect sohonzan(head temple)taiseki-ji temple.
the name 'sensho-ji temple on mt.hoko' was given nikken shonin.
the former chief priests of juhon-ji temple(higashiyama-ku ward,kyoto city),kujo juhon-ji temple(minami-ku ward,kyoto city)and shufuku-ji temple(ide-cho,tsuzuki-gun county)were excommunicated for violating sect regulations by denying 67th high priest nikken shonin's position as high priest.
however,the former chief priests continued to reside at these temples and so they became unable to function as normal nichiren sho sect institutions.
in addition,noei-ji temple(fushimi-ku ward,kyoto city)and kenbutsu-ji temple(uji city)withdrew from the nichiren sho sect to join the soka gakkai.
as a result of these incidents,a state arose in which there were no nichiren sho sect temples in southern kyoto or the surrounding area.
this led the followers to donate their land and property to nichiren sho sect by the wish of yoshiaki kawahara and his wife sadako,on which sensho-ji temple was constructed.
address
33-6 tango,momoyama-cho,fushimi-ku ward,kyoto city
nearby attractions
fushimi momoyama no misasagi(imperial household agency mausoleum of the emperor meiji)
kashiwabara no misasagi(mausoleum of the emperor komu)
fushimi-jo castle ruins
fushimi momoyama-jo athletic park
kyoto momoyama minami-guchi post office
kyoto tachibana high school
access
2 minutes walk from momoyama minami-guchi station on the keihan uji line
13 minutes walk(2 minutes by car)from roku jizo station on the jr nara line or kyoto city subway tozai line
15 minutes by car from kyoto station
