anao-ji temple
anao-ji temple is a buddhist temple located in kameoka city,kyoto prefecture.
the temple's honorific mountain prefix is bodaisan and its principal image is bhaisajyaguru.
the sacred avalokitesvara enshrined at the temple is the 21st of the 33 temples that are visited during the kansai kannon pilgrimage.
tendai sect.
the temple's name is also pronounced 'anao-o-ji' and 'ano-uji' as well as being written using different kanji(chinese character)for the word 'o'.
summary
this ancient temple was founded in the tanba region in 705 during the latter half of the asuka period by otomo no komaro under the order of emperor monmu.
the precinct includes a japanese garden,constructed in the edo period,that incorporates the main hall and tahoto pagoda into its design.
the inner sanctuary of the main hall houses wooden shakyamuni nirvana statue,supposedly carved in the kamakura period,that is said to cure the ailments of temple visitors who touch its body.
on january 3,the fukutaba-e ceremony(nirvana ceremony)is held at the temple.
fukubata-e has a traditional event since more than 300 years that 3,000 cards numbered 1 to 33 are thrown from the main hall and a draw is held depending on the number picked up.
there are three red cards and each card makes a person who picks up live happily for a year.
cultural properties
main hall:rebuilt in 1735 and designated a cultural property by the kyoto prefectural government.
tahoto pagoda:rebuilt in 1804 and designated a cultural property by the kyoto prefectural government.
nio-mon gate(two-storey gate):rebuilt during the mid-edo period and registered as a cultural property by the kyoto prefectural government.
chinju-do hall(guardian god hall):registered as a cultural property by the kyoto prefectural government.
nembutsu-do hall(nembutsu hall):registered as a cultural property by the kyoto prefectural government.
belfry:registered as a cultural property by the kyoto prefectural government.
hojo/kuri(abbot's chamber and monk's living quarters):registered as a cultural property by the kyoto prefectural government.
hojo front gate:registered as a cultural property by the kyoto prefectural government.
wooden standing statue of sacred avalokitesvara(supposedly carved by kansei):a nationally designated important cultural property.
anao-ji kannon engi(history of anao-ji kannon):designated a cultural property by the kyoto prefectural government.
ano-ji garden:constructed in the mid-edo period and designated a place of scenic beauty by the kyoto prefectural government.
anao-ji temple buildings:designated cultural properties by kameoka city.
location
46 higashinotusji,anao,sogabe-cho,kameoka city,kyoto prefecture,621-0029
neighboring pilgrimage sites
the 33 temples that are visited during the kansai kannon pilgrimage
yoshimine-dera temple;anao-ji temple;soji-ji temple(ibaraki city)
nearby attractions
kongo-ji temple(kameoka city)(okyo-dera temple)(4 minutes walk)
obata-jinja shrine(3 minutes walk)
rakuraku-so inn
