nogi-jinja shrine
nogi-jinja shrine is the shinto shrine which deifies maresuke nogi who played an active role as a prominent military officer in meiji period.
there are several nogi-jinja shrines in japan.
nogi-jinja shrines are primarily located in the places which are associated with nogi:shimonoseki city where he was from,and nasushiobara city where he owned a villa as his second residence.
in addition to nogi-jinja shrine related to nogi,there is another nogi-jinja shrine in the same tochigi prefecture;however,in spite of having phonetically the same names,they are from different schools of shrines with different backgrounds(according to tradition,it is believed that the different school of nogi-jinja shrine was built around the forth century).
nevertheless,the other nogi-jinja shrine is sometimes associated with maresuke nogi,as he had visited the shrine to pray a couple of times and also gave some dedication services there,since he regarded it as a special shrine whose name was phonetically the same as his family name.
nogi-jinja shrine(nasushiobara city)(nasushiobara city,tochigi prefecture)--it is located within the site of the villa where nogi lived in retirement after shino-japanese war.
it was ranked as the prefectural shrine(of prefectures other than kyoto and osaka)according to the old classification of shrines.
nogi-jinja(kyoto city)(fushimi ward,kyoto city)--it is located around the foot of the imperial mausoleum of emperor meiji.
it was ranked as fusha(the prefectural shrine of either kyoto or osaka)according to the old classification of shrines.
nogi-jinja(shimonoseki city)(shimonoseki city,yamaguchi prefecture)--chofu,shimonoseki city is the place where nogi came from.
it was ranked as the prefectural shrine(of prefectures other than kyoto and osaka)in the old classification of shrines.
nogi-jinja shrine(akasaka,minato ward,tokyo)--it is located next to the residence where mr.and mrs.nogi fell on their swords.
it was ranked as fusha(the prefectural shrine of either kyoto or osaka)in the old classification of shrines before;however,it is one of the shrines on the exceptional list(beppyo-jinja shrine)of the association of shinto shrines in the present.
there is a branch shrine of nogi-jinja shrine in nogi-cho,hakodate city,hokkaido.
the branch shrine was originally built as an independent hakodate nogi-jinja shrine in 1916,and when it was donated to tokyo nogi-jinja shrine in 1964,it became the hakodate branch of tokyo nogi-jinja shrine.
nogi-jinja shrine in the site of kagawa-ken prefecture gokoku-jinja shrine(zentsuji city,kagawa prefecture)--the shrine is called 'sanuki no miya shrine,' so is kagawa-ken prefecture gokoku-jinja shrine.
muroran city,hokkaido
azuchi-cho,gamo-gun,shiga prefecture
