jigen-in temple
jigen-in temple is a shingonshu sect omuro school temple located in the izumisano city,osaka prefecture.
its sango(literally, "mountain name," which is the title prefixed to the name of a buddhist temple)is mt.daihi.
it was a jingu-ji temple(temples associated with shrines)of adjacent hine-jinja shrine until the end of the early-modern times.
tahoto pagoda(a "multi-treasure" pagoda),which is designated as a national treasure,is known as one of the three famous pagodas in japan together with the pagoda of ishiyama-dera temple and that of kongosanmai-in temple.
further,the precincts of the temple,which is the part of 'the remains of hinenosho(shoen[manor]in hineno district,izumi province),' is designated as the state's historic site.
the 12th butto koji juhachi son(the 18 historical temples with pagodas).
history
according to the tradition,this temple was founded by kakugo ajari in 673 in the name of ganjoju-ji temple muhenkoin on mt.iseki,and it became a chokugan-ji temple(temple built at the order of an emperor)of the emperor shomu from 729 to 749 of the nara period,and was added 1,000 koku of jiryo(land belonged to a temple).
it is said that in 815,kukai(kobo daishi[a posthumous title of the priest kukai])reconstructed tahoto pagoda,kon-do hall(main hall of a buddhist temple)and many other temple buildings afterwards.
in 1353,the period of the northern and southern courts,this temple was burned down because of war fires.
some years later,two emperors named emperor gomurakami and emperor gokameyama ordered the reconstruction of this temple.
hine(hineno)sho,where there is jigen-in temple,was shoen(manor in medieval japan)of the kujo family who was one of the gosekke gosekke(five top fujiwara families whose members were eligible for the positions of sessho and kanpaku).
for four years from 1501,masamoto kujo,the former chief adviser to the emperor,stayed hine and managed there directly,and he recorded about those days in the 'masamoto-ko tabi hikitsuke' (the diary of masamoto kujo)(property of the imperial household archives).
in 1585,hideyoshi toyotomi attacked negoro-ji temple and this district,so all buildings,except for kon-do hall and tahoto pagoda of jigen-in temple,were destroyed by war fires.
in 1602,the restoration of the buddhist temple was begun by hideyori toyotomi,and temple buildings of okunobo,yamanobo,myoo-in temple,kaishaku-in temple,inanobo,nakanobo,shimonobo,toho-ji temple,kaminobo,myojin-sha shrine,kannon-do hall,bishamon-do hall and goma-do hall were founded.
during the kanbun era,this temple was repaired by the lord of the kishiwada domain named the okabe clan,and nakanobo was given the present ingo(a title given to a buddhist temple) 'jigen-in' by shojo monzeki(successor of a temple)of ninna-ji temple in 1665,then this temple became a branch temple of ninna-ji temple.
buddhist temple
tahoto pagoda(national treasure)
founded in 1271,kamakura period.
height is about 10 meters.
it is the smallest one in japan among the wooden tahoto pagodas in the outdoors which are designated as national treasures and important cultural properties.
it is the one of the three famous pagodas in japan together with the pagoda of ishiyama-dera temple and that of kongosanmai-in temple.
the seated statue of dainichi nyorai(mahavairocana)(the cultural property designated by osaka prefecture)is enshrined in the inside of first-layer of this pagoda.
kon-do hall(important cultural property)
founded in the latter half of the kamakura period,about 5.45 meters square,single-layer,yosemune-zukuri(a square or rectangular building,covered with a hipped roof)and hongawarabuki(a style of tile roofing in which round and square tiles are laid down alternately).
bishamon-do hall(ichigan yakushi-do hall)
kokerakyo(sasatoba,a very small common type of memorial stupa that is made of bamboo grass)' is enshrined.
a thirteen-story stone pagoda of the meshino family
founded in the edo period.
japanese and western style leather monument of the earliest ancestor
founded in the meiji period.
fudasho(temples where amulets are collected)and so on
the 12th butto koji juhachi son
the extra sacred site of izumi saigoku sanjusankasho(the 33 temples that are visited during the kansai kannon pilgrimage in the west izumi province)
shin osaka hyakkei(new hundred sights of osaka)
address
626,hineno,izumisano city,osaka prefecture,598-0021
information for visitors
opening hours
from 8:00 to 17:00(reservation is required.)
access
take nankai bus bound for 'inunakiyama' from nankai dentetsu izumisano station or hanwa line hineno station to 'tojo';for eight minutes.
information for nearby spots
hine-jinja shrine
engishiki jinmyocho(a register of shrines in japan)
the old shimonobo of jigen-in temple is a shrine office of hine-jinja temple.
sofuku-ji temple tenman-gu shrine
honden(main hall)is designated as an important cultural property.
