three genji shrines
the three genji shrines(genji san jinja)are a group of three shinto shrines connected with the seiwa-genji(minamoto clan)branch family.
the branch family later became known as 'togoku no genji' (lit.eastern genji)but they were originally based in the kinki(kansai)region,and all of the three genji shrines are in the kinki region.
rokusonno-jinja shrine(minami ward,kyoto city,kyoto prefecture)
enshrines minamoto no tsunemoto who was the progenitor of the seiwa-genji branch(rokusonno lineage).
tada-jinja shrine(tada,kawanishi city,hyogo prefecture)
enshrines minamoto no mitsunaka,minamoto no yorimitsu,minamoto no yorinobu,minamoto no yoriyoshi and minamoto no yoshiie.
tada is where minamoto no tsunemoto's son minamoto no mitsunaka formed the genji samurai corps and is the place in which the seiwa-genji originated.
it is for this reason that tada-jinja shrine is considered to also be the minamoto clan mausoleum and has been highly revered by the entire clan and its descendants as well as coming under the protection of the ashikaga clan and tokugawa clan.
the 'genji-matsuri' festival held in april of each year features a parade of successive minamoto clan samurai warriors from minamoto no mitsunaka to minamoto no sanetomo of the kamakura period on horseback and in full armor.
tsuboi hachiman-gu shrine(tsuboi,habikino city,osaka prefecture)
the ujigami(guardian god)of the kawachi-genji(minamoto clan)who served as heads of the samurai families.
the attached tsuboi-gongen shrine enshrines minamoto no yorinobu,minamoto no yoriyoshi,minamoto no yoshiie,minamoto no yoshitsuna and minamoto no yoshimitsu.
tsuboi is where minamoto no yorinobu built koroho palace and was the base of the kawachi-genji line.
the second head in the seiwa-genji,minamoto no yoriyoshi,transferred the divided tutelary deity of iwashimizu hachiman-gu shrine in the outskirts of kyoto(yawata city,kyoto prefecture)to the kawachi-genji base to serve as the ujigami of the kawachi genji family line.
when the kawachi-genji advanced eastward,minamoto no yoriyoshi founded tsurugaoka-wakamiya shrine in kamakura as a branch shrine of tsuboi hachiman-gu shrine,and this was the precursor of tsurugaoka hachiman-gu shrine.
the shrine is in possession of a white flag flown by the minamoto clan during hachiman taro yoshiie's gosannen war and a katana sword used by yoshiie.
nearby are both the remains of tsuho-ji temple which was once the kawachi-genji family temple,and the tomb of yorinobu,yoriyoshi and yoshiie.
