hoshun-in temple(kyoto city)
hoshun-in temple is a sub-temple located within the precinct of rinzai sect daihonzan(head temple)daitoku-ji temple in murasakino,kita ward,kyoto city,kyoto prefecture.
it is the northernmost of all daitoku-ji temple's sub-temples.
it is not ordinarily open to the public.
history
hoshun-in temple was founded in 1608 by matsuko(matsu,hoshunin),the wife of toshiie maeda who was founder of the kaga domain with a value of one million koku,who named gyokushitsu sohaku as first chief priest.
the name hoshun-in temple was taken from her buddhist name,and the temple became an ancestral temple of the maeda family.
at the time of its founding,the temple was a gathering place for numerous court nobles,warrior households and tea ceremony masters-making it the birthplace of kanei era culture.
the original buildings were destroyed by fire in 1796 but the currently standing kyakuden(guest hall),kuri(monks' living quarters)and donkokaku pavilion were rebuilt two years later.
the temple was closed amidst the chaos of the anti-buddhist movement at the beginning of the meiji period but was eventually revived in 1875.
buildings
main building(hojo, 'abbot's quarters')
donkokaku:a cultural property designated by kyoto prefecture
an elegant two-storey timber building built by enshu kobori in 1617 at the request of toshiie maeda's son toshinaga maeda that is considered to be one of the four great pavilions of kyoto along with kinkaku-ji temple,ginkaku-ji temple and hiunkaku.
mausoleum:a cultural property designated by kyoto prefecture
matsu' who lived a turbulent life rests in peace alongside his eldest son toshinaga.
teahouses:rakuyo-tei,shogetsu-ken and nyoze-an
garden
hojo(abbot's quarters)front garden(kagan-tei)
said to express the enormity of nature in which the water that flows from a mountain stream eventually returns to the ocean.
cultural properties
portrait of the wife of toshiie maeda(inscribed by shunoku soen)
access
take the kyoto city bus from jr kyoto station to 'daitoku-ji mae' bus stop(approximately 30 minutes)and 10 minutes walk.
