kinpu-jinja shrine(yoshino-cho)
kinpu-jinja shrine is a shrine located in yoshino-cho,yoshino county,nara prefecture.
it is located in the furthest depths of yoshino,and enshrines the tutelary deity of mt.yoshino.
it is a shikinaisha(shinto shrine listed in the engishiki)(myojin taisha)and a gosha(regional shrine)in the old shrine ranking system.
in july 2004 it was registered as part of the united nations educational,scientific and cultural organization(unesco)world heritage "sacred sites and pilgrimage routes in the kii mountain range."
enshrined deity
kanayamahiko no mikoto,the tutelary deity of mt.yoshino,is enshrined.
history
the history of its establishment is unknown.
there is a record of fujiwara no michinaga visiting the shrine in the "eiga monogatari" (a tale of flowering fortunes).
architecture
worship hall
yoshitsune's hidden tower
a simple tower built in a pyramid style with roof tiles,found down a lane at the side of kinpu-jinja shrine.
it is said that minamoto no yoshitsune,who was surrounded by assailants,kicked through the roof to escape,earning the tower the nickname 'kick and break tower.'
cultural properties
national treasures
golden scripture cylinder of fujiwara no michinaga
a solid and large scripture cylinder that fujiwara no michinaga buried in the kinpusen mountain kyozuka(tenkawa-mura,yoshino county,nara prefecture)in 1007(kyozuka:scripture boxes and cylinders are buried in a mound of earth in order to preserve them for the distant future when miroku buddha is to appear in this world).
made of enchanted copper and plated with gold,510 characters are inscribed in 24 rows describing the reason for and history behind the burial of scriptures.
(deposited to kyoto national museum)
important cultural properties
this metal hilt was stolen in 2004 from the drawing room at yoshimizu-jinja shrine where it had been stored,but was found safe the following year.
directions
from the kintetsu yoshino line yoshino station(nara prefecture)take the yoshino ropeway to yoshino-yama station and walk 1.75 hours.
