jotoku-ji temple
jotoku-ji temple is a temple of the jodo(pure land)sect located in motoshiogama-cho,shimogyo ward,kyoto city.
its sango(literally, "mountain name"),which is the title prefixed to the name of a buddhist temple,is ensozan.
it is commonly known as 'yotsugi(successor)jizo(guardian deity of children)' and belongs to the so-called temple group.
history
it is said that,in 1603,ieyasu tokugawa established it and invited denyo ichia as a founder in order to pray for acha-no-tsubone and his daughter taieiin.
its honzon(principal image of buddha)is the statue of amida nyorai(amitabha tathagata)allegedly made by kaikei,which is said to have been transferred from muchizaki-jinja shrine in yabase,goshu(omi province)by ieyasu.
though "miyako meisho zue" (illustrated collection of famous places of the capital)says that there was 'shiogama-myojin' (a gracious deity)in the precincts,it does not exist.
it often caught fire,so the current honzon is soshi-do hall(founder's hall)transferred from zenrin-ji temple(kyoto city)in the meiji period.
yotsugi jizo
the approach to the temple from the temple gate runs down to the back left,separated from the main hall at the front,and leads to the jizo-do hall.
the hall is 'yotsugi jizo,' which has been known for smooth delivery and pregnancy since the edo period.
it is said that there was a good omen of jizo bosatsu(jizo bodhisattva)in 1656 and around 1720 during the kyoho era,and since then,it has gained people's faith.
goeika(a buddhist hymn)
it's a blessing that the deity has been gracious for a thousand years to protect our successors'
precincts
hagatame(to protect teeth and pray for a long life)jizo
migawari(vicariousness)jizo
grave of acha-no-tsubone
pomegranate of longevity,good fortune and good health.
kuhi(stone tablet inscribed with a haiku)of unko horiuchi
it's good to have sunshine in the grove in the summer' (kanku(japanese poem consisting of 17 syllables with first 5 syllables fixed))
annual events
february 8:yotsugi jizo festival saito gomaku(holy fire rituals)
august:giving daifuku hozuki(chinese lantern plant with good luck)for protection against evil
address
556 motoshiogama-cho,gojo street sagaru,tominokoji street,shimogyo ward,kyoto city
access
about a 5-minute walk from kiyomizu-gojo station of the keihan electric railway
about a 2-minute walk from kyoto city bus kawaramachi gojo stop
