shana-in temple
sango(literally, "mountain name"),which is the title prefixed to the name of a buddhist temple:shogun-san mountain
religious school:shingon sect buzan school
honzon(principal image of buddha):aizen myoo(ragaraja),amida nyorai(amitabha tathagata)(both of them are important cultural properties.)
founded in 814(allegedly)
kaiki(founding patron):allegedly kukai,及雅(kaisan(a founder of temple as the first chief priest))
formal name
another name
fudasho(temples where amulets are collected),etc.:the 6th temple of pilgrimage to nagahama six gourds
cultural properties:wooden seated statue of aizenmyoo,wooden seated statue of amidanyorai,sangatsukyo mandala-zu with color painting on silk(important cultural properties)
shana-in temple is a buddhist temple in shingon sect buzan school in nagahama city,shiga prefecture.
it has been known as a fuyo-viewing spot.
history
an ancient temple which has been said to have been founded by kukai(kobo daishi(a posthumous title of the priest kukai))in 814,the early heian period.
jigo(the name of a buddhist temple)is shinhojo-ji temple,and its sango,shogun-san,was given by emperor gosanjo in the era of restoration(the late 11th century)by minamoto no yoriie who served as bettoshiki(the office of head administrator)of gakuto(head student).
the temple building was burned down in frequent fires caused by war in the late 16th century,but was reconstructed by hideyoshi toyotomi.
since heian period,shinhojo-ji temple was the gakushuin school corporation of nagahama hachimangu shrine and served as bettoji(a temple attached to a shrine),but the branch temples,shana-in temple,was eliminated due to the edict of separation of shinto and buddhism in early meiji period.
buddha statues from eliminated temples were collected in shana-in temple,and they are still there to this day.
the current chief priest is ryukei yoshida.
buddhist temple
hondo(main hall)-built in the early edo period
goma-do hall-built in muromachi period
chashitsu(tea room)
shoin(reception room)
kuri(priest's kitchen and living room)
kannon-do hall(a temple dedicated to kannon)
taishi-do hall
jizo-do hall
front gate
shoro-do
old tea room in shana-in temple 'bosen'
though the temple had a tea room 'bosen' built by enshu kobori,a businessman in hokkaido,kinya mochida,obtained it and moved it to sapporo city in 1919,and it came to be called 'hassoan tea house.'
the owner of the tea room changed,and was moved to nakajima park in chuo ward,sapporo city(sapporo city)in 1971.
it was designated as a national important cultural property under the name of 'hassoan tea house(old shana-in temple bosen)' in 1936.
cultural property
important cultural property(government-designated)
wooden seated statue of aizenmyoo
kamakura period,honzon
it's been said that it was a hoken(offertory)from hideyoshi toyotomi.
wooden seated statue of amidanyorai
heian period,kannon-do hall enshrined
sangatsukyo mandala-zu with color painting on silk
address
13-45,miyamae-cho town,nagahama city,526-0053
access
15-minute walk from nagahama station,jr biwako line
information for nearby spots
daitsu-ji temple(nagahama city)
kurokabe square
nagahama hachimangu shrine
