yakushi-do hall
yakushi-do hall is the name of a buddha hall of which a statue of yakushi nyorai(bhaisajyaguru)is the principal image.
in mahayana buddhism,yakushi nyorai is believed to be the buddha who is efficacious for divine favors in the actual world,such as healing and medicine,and in japan there are a great many temples with the deity as their principal image and buddha halls that enshrine his image as he is widely worshipped in buddhist countries throughout asia,particularly japan.
however,it is not the case that all buddha halls with yakushi nyorai as their principal image are named 'yakushi-do' and names vary among different temples.
when the hall enshrining a statue of yakushi nyorai is the temple's main hall,it is often referred to as the 'hondo,' 'kondo' or 'konponchudo.'
temples of which yakushi nyorai is the principal image commonly have names such as 'yakushi-ji temple,' 'yakuo-ji temple' and 'io-ji temple,' or names that include the word 'to' (east)such as 'toko-ji temple' and 'tomyo-ji temple.'
this is because yakushi nyorai is believed to reside in the eastern paradise.
there are also temples named 'ruriko-ji temple' after yakushi nyorai's full name 'yakushi ruriko nyorai'.
as yakushi nyorai is the buddha believed to heal the sick,there are institutions relating to pharmaceutical production and medical treatment that also use the name 'yakushi-do'.
additionally,there also geographical areas with the name yakushi-do.
well-known yakushi-do halls
yakushi-do' hall is simply the name of a buddha hall of which yakushi nyorai is the principal image,and does not refer to a particular 'yakushi-do' hall architectural style or external appearance.
below are listed some typical buddha halls which bear the name 'yakushi-do'.
national treasures
yakushi-do hall of daigo-ji temple(fushimi ward,kyoto city).built in the latter part of the heian period
yakushi-do hall of buraku-ji temple(otoyo-cho,kochi prefecture).built in the latter part of the heian period
important cultural properties(nationally designated)
yakushi-do hall of shojo-ji temple(yugawa-mura,fukushima prefecture).built during the muromachi period
yakushi-do hall of jofuku-in temple(aizumisato-machi,fukushima prefecture).built during the muromachi period
yakushi-do hall of byodo-ji temple(joetsu city,niigata prefecture).built during the muromachi period
yakushi-do hall of ishido-ji temple(minamiboso city,chiba prefecture).built during the momoyama period
yakushi-do hall of senpuku-ji temple(inba-mura,chiba prefecture).built during the muromachi period
yakushi-do hall of chuzen-ji temple(ueda city,nagano prefecture).built during the kamakura period
yakushi-do hall of hokai-ji temple(fushimi ward,kyoto city).built during the muromachi period
yakushi-do hall of jodo-ji temple(ono ciy,hyogo prefecture).built during the muromachi period
yakushi-do hall of shakubu-ji temple(kobe ciy,hyogo prefecture).built during the muromachi period
yakushi-do hall of taima-dera temple(katsuragi city,nara prefecture).built during the muromachi period
yakushi-do hall of kissho-ji temple(aridagawa-cho,wakayama prefecture).built during the muromachi period
yakushi-do hall of konrin-ji temple(umaji-mura,aki-gun,kochi prefecture).built during the muromachi period
yakushi-do hall of gachirin-ji temple(yamaguchi city,yamaguchi prefecture).built during the heian period
