kyoto seinen shihan-gakko(kyoto young men's normal school)
kyoto seinen shihan-gakko(kyoto young men's normal school)was a seinen shihan-gakko(young men's normal school)established in 1944.
summary
it originated in jitsugyo-hoshu-gakko kyoin-yoseijo of kyoto prefecture(training institute for teachers of vocational continuation school of kyoto prefecture)established in 1926.
in 1944,seinen-gakko kyoin-yoseijo of kyoto prefecture(training institute for teachers of young men's school of kyoto prefecture;established in 1935)was transferred to the control of the national government and became kyoto seinen shihan-gakko(kyoto young men's normal school).
because of the educational reform after world war ii,it became one of the parent organizations of kyoto gakugei university(kyoto university of education,as of now)under the new educational system.
the alumni association is named the 'alumni association of kyoto university of education,' and it is a combined association of both the old system(kyoto shihan-gakko and kyoto seinen shihan-gakko)and the new system.
history
april 1926:jitsugyo-hoshu-gakko kyoin-yoseijo of kyoto prefecture(training institute for teachers of vocational continuation school of kyoto prefecture)was established,attached to kyoto shihan-gakko(kyoto normal school).
the location:koyamaminamiono-cho and higashigoshoden-cho murasakino,kita ward,kyoto city;where the locations of kyoto primary school attached to the kyoto university of education and kyoto junior high school attached to the kyoto university of education at present.
the term of education:one-year.
qualifications for enrollment at first:(1)a person who had graduated from a five-year or more agricultural school and was qualified as a licensed school teacher of an elementary school regular course;(2)a person who had experienced teaching at a school or agricultural engineering for two or more years and qualified as a licensed school teacher of the elementary school regular course;and others(qualifications were loosened later).
april 1935:it changed its name to seinen-gakko kyoin-yoseijo of kyoto prefecture(training institute for teachers of young men's school of kyoto prefecture;two-year).
june 1937:a temporary training course was established and attached(one-year).
april 1944:it was transferred to the control of the national government and became kyoto seinen shihan-gakko(kyoto young men's normal school;three-year regular course).
december 1945:it moved to the former maizuru navy's campus in aza tomita,tanba-cho,funai-gun.
october 1947:komono junior high school run by four villages in funai-gun was made a substitute associated school.
may 31,1949:kyoto gakugei university under the new educational system was established.
it was integrated with kyoto shihan-gakko as one of the parent organizations.
in the former location of seinen shihan-gakko,takahara bunkyojo classroom(closed in march 1959)was established.
march 1951:kyoto gakugei university kyoto seinen shihan-gakko(under the old educational system)was closed.
changes and inheritances of locations of the school
it was established successively after the former seinen-gakko kyoin-yoseijo of kyoto prefecture(training institute for teachers of young men's school of kyoto prefecture)at the location of the men's division of kyoto shihan-gakko(kyoto normal school)in koyamaminamiono-cho,kamigyou ward(kita ward,as of now),kyoto city.
in december 1945,it moved to the former navy facility in aza tomita,takahara village(tomita,kyotanba-cho,as of now),funai-gun.
the location of the school in takahara-mura village was inherited later by kyoto gakugei university,and became takahara bunkyojo classroom.
takahara bunkyojo classroom was closed in march 1959,and the remaining site was inherited by kyoto university.
