kyoto prefectural university
history
1949:a new system saikyo university was inaugurated with faculty of letters and domestic science and faculty of agriculture,based on kyoto prefectural vocational training school of agriculture and forestry(old system)and kyoto prefectural girls' vocational training school(old system)as parent organizations.
1951:kyoto prefectural university women's college was established.
1959:it changed to kyoto prefectural university.
1970:faculty of letters and domestic science was divided into faculty of letters and faculty of home economics.
1977:faculty of home economics changed to faculty of human life and science.
1995:faculty of welfare society and faculty of human and environment were established and the student applications for kyoto prefectural university women's college were suspended.
2004:faculty of human life and science was abolished.
2008:the public university corporate body system was introduced and the kyoto prefectural university corporate body began to manage both kyoto prefectural university of medicine and kyoto prefectural university.
faculty of public policy and faculty of life and environmental sciences were established and the student applications for faculty of welfare society,faculty of human and environment and faculty of agriculture were suspended.
faculty and department
faculty of letters
department of european and american linguistic cultures
department of japanese and chinese literature
department of history
faculty of public policy
department of public policy
department of welfare society
faculty of life and environmental sciences
department of bimolecular chemistry
department of agricultural and life sciences
department of food sciences and nutritional health
department of informatics and environmental science
department of environmental design
department of forest science
graduate school
graduate school of literary studies
graduate school of public policy
graduate school of life and environmental sciences
list of relevant parties of kyoto prefectural university
the list of persons involved with kyoto prefectural university
sports
kansai big six public universities games is held every autumn.
three teams fight each other,such as kyoto side:kyoto prefectural university,osaka side:prefecture university(old osaka prefecture university and old osaka women's university),and hyogo side:university of hyogo(old kobe university of commerce and old himeji institute of technology and old himeji college of hyogo).
kyoto and shiga public universities games,where kyoto prefectural university competes with the university of shiga prefecture,are held every summer.
