otani university
otani university is based on the philosophy of otani-ha shin buddhism.
overview
otani university was originally built as a seminary within the grounds of higashi hongan-ji temple in 1665.
in 1678 the seminary was relocated to the shoseien,an annex of higashi hongan-ji temple,with the donation of building materials;subsequently,in 1755 it was increased in size,relocated to takakura-dori uontana(gojo kudaru)and renamed "takakura gakuryo."
in 1868 gohojo was added for research and education in fields other than buddhist studies.
takakura gakuryo was divided into shinshu university and shinshu takakura daigakuryo in 1896;moreover,shinshu university was relocated to sugamo,tokyo,where it was reopened in 1901 under its first president,manshi kiyozawa.
in 1911 the two educational institutions were again integrated,being renamed shinshu otani university and returning to takakura-dori uontana;and two years later the university returned to the place where it is now located.
in 1923 otani university was founded for the study of the humanities in order to provide education in buddhist studies and related fields,under the former education school system.
in 1949 it was reorganized under the new school education system.
since its foundation,the university has maintained its scale and contents as a humanities-oriented university whose founding philosophy is to nurture those who firmly establish themselves in faith and have deep knowledge,doing so through in-depth research and the teaching of specialized subjects.
prominent scholars such as daisetsu suzuki taught as professors at the university.
the university has produced many buddhist philosophers and scholars who represent modern and postmodern japan,including ryojin soga,daiei kaneko and susumu yamaguchi.
with their specialized knowledge,graduates are activity involved in diverse fields of endeavor as monks,teachers,librarians,curators,social welfare workers,editors and so on.
the university's library holds 740,000 books.
the library is,in terms of both quantity and quality,one of the leading facilities for the study of the humanities in japan,exhibiting important domestic and foreign books that have been collected over many years;today it continues to collect and exhibit academic books and important works in various subject fields.
the university museum holds 12,000 cultural artifacts which are continuously exhibited.
included in the collection are eight important cultural artifacts such as "sango shiki chu shu" (written by kukai,annotated "sango shiki"); "shunki" (the diary of fujiwara no sukefusa,a noble of the heian period); "senchakuhongan nenbutsu shu" (a collection of buddhist invocations written by honen);and "yuasa kagemoto kishinjo" (a letter signed by myoe,a japanese buddhist monk).
chronology
1665:a seminary was established on the grounds of higashi hongan-ji temple.
1678:the seminary was relocated to shoseien,an annex of higashi hongan-ji temple.
1755:the seminary was relocated to takakura-dori uontana(gojo kudaru).
thereafter it was called "takakura gakuryo."
1868:gohojo was added to the seminary.
1896:the seminary was divided into sinshu university and shinshu takakura daigakuryo.
1897:kanjun urabe became the first dean of shinshu daigaku.
1899:shinshu university was approved under the private school ordinance.
jino sekine was accepted as the representative of the university.
1901:shinshu university was relocated to sugamo,tokyo.
manshi kiyozawa became the university's first president.
1904:shinshu university was approved under the professional school ordinance.
1911:shinshu university and shinshu takakura daigakuryo were integrated and renamed as shinshu otani university.
the university returned to takakura-dori uontana.
1913:the university was relocated to its present site.
1923:otani university(faculty of letters)was opened under the former university ordinance,and shinshu otani university was reorganized as a professional school.
1949:otani university(faculty of letters departments of buddhist studies,philosophy and history)was approved under the new school system ordinance.
1950:otani university junior college(department of buddhist studies)was founded.
1953:master's program(graduate school of literature)was established.
1955:the doctoral program(graduate school of literature)was established.
1963:the department of japanese literature was added to the junior college.
1965:the faculty of letters was divided into six departments:shin buddhist studies,buddhist studies,philosophy,sociology,history and literature.
1966:the department of early-childhood education was added to the junior college.
1981:the shin buddhist comprehensive research institute was founded.
1992:the department of japanese literature in the junior college was reorganized as the department of cultural studies.
1993:the department of intercultural studies was added to the faculty of letters.
2000:the department of humane informatics was added to the faculty of letters.
2000: "a foundation monument of otani university" inscribed with the handwriting of president ichijo ogawa was placed in miyanaka park,located in sugamo,tokyo(kamiikebukuro).
2001:the korukan(shin buddhist comprehensive academic center)was completed.
2003:university museum was established.
1)otani university considers that the relocation of shinshu university heralded the "modernization of the university";therefore,manshi kiyozawa was seen as "the first president."
faculty and department
faculty of letters(fields of study)
department of shin buddhist studies(shin buddhist studies)
department of buddhist(buddhist studies)
the department of philosophy(western philosophy,ethics,philosophy of religion and educational studies)
the department of sociology(contemporary sociology,cultural anthropology,study of social welfare and clinical psychology)
the department of history(japanese history,history of japanese buddhism,east asian history and history of east asian buddhism)
the department of literature(japanese literature,chinese literature,american and english literature,and german literature)
department of intercultural studies(intercultural studies)
department of humane informatics(human informatics)
otani university junior college(departments and courses)
department of buddhist studies
department of cultural studies(cultural course/information course)
the department of early childhood education
graduate school
graduate school of literature
master's course(shin buddhist studies,buddhist studies,philosophy,sociology,buddhist culture,and intercultural studies)
doctoral course(shin buddhist studies,buddhist studies,philosophy,sociology,buddhist culture,and intercultural studies)
affiliated organization
shin buddhist comprehensive research institute
university museum
affiliated facility
otani kindergarten(kobata ogurayama,uji city)
affiliated school
kyushu otani junior college(kurakazu,chikugo city,fukuoka prefecture)
otani junior and senior high school(imagumano,higashiyama-ku,kyoto city)
about the facilities
main campus(koyama kamifusacho,kita-ku,kyoto city)
hakuso-kan[main building](president room,planning office,conference room,general affairs division,admissions office,human rights center,student counseling office,health care center,seminar rooms,faculty offices)
jingen-kan(a registered cultural property completed in 1913),the former main building:alumni association,alumni center,jigen-kan auditorium,classrooms)
koru-kan(shin buddhist comprehensive academic center)(library,group reading rooms,comprehensive research room(faculty of letters/graduate school),university museum,museology training room,shin buddhist comprehensive research institute,media hall,multimedia rooms,educational research support center,gallery,bookstore,school store)
auditorium(big auditorium,big cafeteria,multipurpose hall,japanese and western common rooms,lounges,rehearsal room)
shijo-kan(student support office(student division,careers office),educational affairs office,counseling room for educational profession and social welfare)
monshi-kan(faculty offices)
gymnasium(arena,training gym,training rooms)
building no.1(classrooms,information processing rooms,office of the otani academic society and others within the campus,student lounge,cafe terrace, "big valley" (tearoom))
building no.2(seminar rooms for the junior college(departments of buddhist studies,cultural studies and early childhood education);training rooms for music,art,child health and nutrition;classrooms and faculty offices)
building no.3(information processing laboratory)(studio for digital content creation,editorial office,digital data processing room,seminar rooms,classrooms)
clubhouse(for the use of each club)
kosai campus(ogoto,otsu city)
athletics grounds(baseball field,soccer field,track-and-field stadium)
sub-ground
tennis court
training gym
seminar house(training rooms,practice rooms,accommodations(japanese and western),dining room,big bathhouse)
dormitory
kanren men's dormitory(omiya yakushiyama nishicho,kita-ku,kyoto city)
jito women's dormitory(matsugasaki goshonouchicho,sakyo-ku,kyoto city)
campus calendar
april
entrance ceremony
orientation
wakabasai(a ceremony of welcome for new students)
june
celebration of founder shinran's birthday
deadline for reporting graduation thesis titles(faculty of letters),graduation research titles(junior college)and master's thesis titles(graduate school)
july
first semester examinations
august
summer vacation
september
intensive courses,second-semester classes begin
october
foundation day
graduation research submission deadline(junior college departments of buddhist studies and cultural studies)
november
shimeisai(university festival)
recommendation entrance examination(designated schools)
public application recommendation entrance examination(methods a and b)
hoonko(shinran memorial day)
deadline for submittal of graduation research(junior college department of early childhood education)
december
deadline for submittal of master's thesis(graduate school)
winter vacation
january
deadline for submittal of graduate thesis(faculty of letters)
entrance examination using the national center test for university admissions
second semester examinations
oral examination for graduation thesis
february
general entrance examination,first term
march
general entrance examination,second term
commencement
