doshisha university
summary
spirit of establishment
spirit of establishing doshisha university is the 'conscience' based on the christian spirit.
joseph hardy neesima(jo niijima)declared that educating 'a person who can manage things in tune with his conscience' as the purpose of establishing doshisha university.
he wished to educate people to be 'fully conscious ' of a 'moral education' based on christian values without leaning toward an education based on just knowledge.
the monuments upon where his wishes are carved stand in front of the gates at both the imadegawa campus and the kyotanabe campus.
on these monuments one can see the following words: "i earnestly desire that many young people filled with conscience will be raised and sent out by our school."
the purpose is to educate people to develop a 'country with a conscience' based upon 'christian principles,' 'liberalism,' and 'internationalism' as the philosophy of education to specifically realize 'conscience' education.
education and research
doshisha university has 11 faculties and 12 graduate schools.
also,it has the faculty of theology which is rare in japan.
academic culture and characteristics
it is a christian institution that is run based on the principles of protestantism(congregationalism).
but it is different from universities that are called mission schools,and it does not mainly propagate christianity(education itself is not for the propagation of christianity);this is a university based upon christian principles.
history
brief history
in 1875,joseph hardy neesima(jo niijima),one of the six great educators during the meiji period,established doshisha english school,that grew to become the present day doshisha university.
chronological table
the history of doshisha english school
1875:joseph hardy neesima(jo niijima)established doshisha english school in teramachi,kyoto.
the number of teachers was two,and that of students was eight.
1876:the campus was relocated to imadegawa campus(former residence of the satsuma domain).
established a bible class called "yoka" at the doshisha english school.
at the time,35 students of the kumamoto band entered the school.
1887:doshisha hospital and kyoto training school for nurses were established to fulfill a plan to build a medical school(the medical department).
established doshisha preparatory school.
1888:doshisha gakuin(preliminary facility,the regular facility and the facility of theology)was established merging doshisha english school and doshisha preparatory school.
the 'intention to establishment of doshisha university' was announced to the mainstream magazine and newspaper media throughout the whole country.
1889:doshisha gakuin was renamed doshisha preparatory school,and doshisha normal school and doshisha seminary.
1890:joseph hardy neesima(jo niijima)died.
the doshisha harris school of science and chemistry was established(current faculty of science and engineering)in september.
1891:doshisha school of law and politics was established.
established the department of political science(the current faculty of law)and department of economics(the current faculty of economics).
1892:the harris school of science and chemistry renamed the doshisha harris school of science.
1893:established the logo for doshisha.
1896:doshisha normal school renamed doshisha normal high school.
1897:doshisha normal high school,doshisha school of law and politics and doshisha harris school of science were reorganized to school of literature,doshisha higher division,school of politics and law,doshisha higher division,and harris school of science,doshisha higher division,respectively.
1904:doshisha seminary,school of literature,doshisha higher division and harris school of science,doshisha higher division were merged by acts of colleges,and doshisha technical school was established by the acts of colleges.
school of politics and law,doshisha higher division was abolished.
1908:established the college song.
1911:reorganized as a technical school and established four facilities,faculty of theology,faculty of english teaching,advanced faculty of commerce(current faculty of commerce)and faculty of politics and economics.
the history of doshisha university
1912:doshisha technical school and doshisha seminary were abolished.
doshisha university(faculty of theology,faculty of and politics and economics and department of english)was established by the acts of colleges.
1919:department of english renamed faculty of letters,and faculty of politics and economics renamed faculty of law.
1920:the school was promoted to university by the acts of colleges,and it was the first in the kansai area.
established doshisha university with the faculty of letters(school of theology,department of english),faculty of law(department of political science,department of economics),graduate school,and a preparatory course.
1922:renamed doshisha technical school and reorganized by the acts of colleges and established the faculty of theology,the faculty of english teaching,the advanced faculty of commerce,and the faculty of politics and economics.
1923:established the department of law within faculty of law.
1926:established a theology major and an ethics major in the school of theology within the faculty of letters.
1927:established the department of philosophy within the faculty of letters.
1930:advanced faculty of commerce of the doshisha technical school was abolished and established the doshisha higher school of commerce.
1937:helen keller gave a lecture.
faculty of theology within the doshisha technical school was abolished.
1940:ethics and education major under the department of philosophy within faculty of letters were divided into ethics major and education major.
1941:faculty of letters(school of theology,department of english,and department of philosophy)was reorganized into the school of theology(theology major),and department of cultural studies(ethics and philosophy,psychology,english language and english literature,faculty of letters and welfare studies major).
1944:doshisha university research institute(current institute for humanities and social studies)was established.
faculty of law and letters(three departments of theology studies,welfare studies and law and economic studies)was reduced to one faculty.
doshisha industrial technical school was established,and the department of electric communication,department of mechanics and department of chemical engineering were established.
1946:it was restored to its original two faculties.
welfare studies were reorganized into the department of sociology within a faculty of letters.
1947:school of theology within faculty of letters was reorganized into the faculty of theology.
1948:the university with a new system was established with four faculties(faculty of theology,faculty of letters,faculty of law and faculty of economics).
1949:established the faculty of commerce and the faculty of engineering and became a six faculties system.
the first university to start an entrance examination using braille in japan.
started a student's association.
1950:master's degrees for the graduate school of theology,graduate school of literature,graduate school of law,graduate school of economics,and graduate school of commerce were established.
department of junior college(two-year,nighttime course)with school of english,school of commerce,school of economics and school of engineering was established.
1951:faculty of liberal arts was abolished.
1952:all technology schools of doshisha were abolished.
1953:graduate school doctoral program was established.
1955:graduate school of engineering master degree was established.
1957:doshisha university research institute was renamed doshisha university,institute of humanities and social studies.
1958:international institute of american studies was established.
1959:science and engineering research institute was established.
1974:an annex to shin-machi was established.
1976:eu information center was established.
1986:the tanabe campus(currently the kyotanabe campus)was established.
a doctoral program in social welfare within the graduate school of literature(second semester)and a doctoral program for the graduate school of japanese literature(second semester)were established.
1988:aesthetics and art majors within the graduate school of literature were established.
1991:american studies was established as the first independent study in the graduate school.
the academic information center was established.
1993:institute for language and culture was established.
religion center was renamed center for christian culture.
a master's program in education within the graduate school of literature,a master's program in sociology within the graduate school of literature,and a doctoral program in american studies within the graduate school of american studies(second semester)were established.
1994:the department of knowledge engineering,department of molecular science and technology,and department of chemical engineering and materials within the faculty of engineering were established.
also,department of mechanical engineering was reorganized to department of mechanical and systems,and department of mechanical engineering the second course was reorganized to department of energy and mechanical engineering.
the faculty of engineering and the department of engineering studies,and the science and engineering research institute were merged and relocated to the tanabe campus.
doshisha university,seihokai(the alumni association for the faculty of law)was established.
1995:graduate school of policy and management was established as an independent study course in the graduate school.
1996: 'venture business program' was established in the graduate school of commerce,a professional course.
an 'advanced professional course' was established in addition to applied economic theory major(master's degree)within graduate school of economics.
a doctoral program for aesthetics and art(second semester)was established within the graduate school of literature.
1997:a doctoral program in sociology within the graduate school of literature and a doctoral program in general policy science within the graduate school of policy and management(second semester)were established.
enforcement of the day and night lecture system.
1998:a doctoral program in newspaper studies(second semester)was established within the graduate school of literature.
master's program for information and computer science,and master's program for environmental science and mathematical modeling were established in the graduate school of engineering.
enforcement of the two semester system.
double degree system of école centrale(école centrale des arts et manufactures)was started.
1999:the doshisha university center for japanese language and culture for exchange students were established.
2000:a doctoral program in information engineering(second semester)was established within the graduate school of engineering.
started the mutual utilization of libraries(lending books)using school id with doshisha women's college of liberal arts.
2001:a doctoral program in education(second semester)was established within the graduate school of literature.
2003:master's program for industrial relations within the graduate school of literature was established.
the doshisha rohm plaza project was started.
dissolution of the student's association.
2004:faculty for policy studies and the graduate school for professional(law school,graduate school of business)were established.
two departments were established for the faculty of engineering.
the student department was renamed the student support services center.
adopted gpa(grade point average)system.
2005:department of sociology within faculty of letters was reorganized as the faculty of social studies.
faculty for cultural and information science was established.
anti-aging research center was established.
a comprehensive agreement was concluded with kyotanabe city.
affiliated with the kyoto graduate union of religious studies.
2006:department of knowledge engineering within the faculty of engineering was reorganized as the department of intelligent information engineering and science.
introduced foreign language honors(system of commendation for honor students of foreign language classes).
introduced project courses.
established open courseware.
study exchange and exchange student agreements were concluded with the university of milan.
started a corporation program(program of the acquisition of license to be an elementary school teacher)with distance education,department of child education,faculty of developmental education of kobe shinwa women's university(elementary education course)(coeducational school).
stanford japan center was established.
d-egg(incubation facility)was completed.
2007:anti-aging dock was established.
assistant professor renamed associate professor.
2008:faculty of engineering was reorganized as the faculty of science and engineering,and two departments were reorganized and one department added.
faculty of life and medical sciences(three departments),faculty of health and sports science(one department),and graduate school of life and medical sciences were established.
2009:department of psychology within the faculty of letters was reorganized as the faculty of psychology,and all students in the faculty were relocated to kyotanabe campus.
the graduate school of psychology was also relocated to kyotanabe campus.
all students of the school of theology and the faculty of social studies were relocated to imadegawa campus.
basic data
location
xx-kochi' (xx campus)is the official name at doshisha university.
however, 'xx campus' is also used as a name.
(only for kansai science city campus, "campus" is officially used for the campus name.)
imadegawa campus(karasuma higashi-iru,imadegawa-dori,kamigyo ward,kyoto city,kyoto prefecture,602-8580)
shinmachi campus(kamigyo ward,kyoto city,kyoto prefecture)
shinmachi campus(kamigyo ward,kyoto city,kyoto prefecture)
kyotanabe campus(1-3 tatara miyakodani,kyotanabe city,kyoto prefecture,610-0394)
kansai science city campus(4-1-1 kizugawadai,kizugawa city,kyoto prefecture,619-0225)
osaka satellite(nomura fudosan nishi-umeda building 9th floor,2-1-22 umeda,kita ward(osaka city),osaka city,osaka prefecture,530-0001)
tokyo office(div.566,level 5,nippon building,2-6-2 otemachi,chiyoda ward,tokyo,100-0004)
symbol
school badge
this is a drawing of three triangles which is an assyrian letter 'mutsu' that means country or land.
knowledge,benevolence,and body,three things together working for harmony,expresses the philosophy of education at doshisha.
the designer was hangetsu yuasa.
school color
two colors,purple(the middle color of dark purple and edo purple)and white.
same color of the school color of amherst college which the founder,joseph hardy neesima(jo niijima)graduated from.
school song
doshisha college song(words by william merrell vories,music by karl wilhelm)
based on a traditional folk song of german 'die wacht am rhein' and william merrell vories wrote the words.
also school song of yale university where many missionaries were graduated from,uses the same melody.
the song is sometimes available at karaoke bars.
doshisha college song(words by hakushu kitahara,music by kosaku yamada)
it's recorded in a collection of college songs(cd)distributed to the first year sturents of doshisha university annually.
while it was recorded by the glee club of doshisha university,a men's chorus group,without any background music until 2004,it was recorded as mixed chorus arrangement of five people in chapel with vocal percussion from 2005,and it was also recorded in an orchestra version with the doshisha symphony orchestra.
arrangement and song is by the a cappella circle 'one voices'.
rooters' song
doshisha cheer
the song is also sung at many events other than sports where cheering is going on.
doshisha heroes
number of students
there are 26,000 student studying at doshisha university.
education and research
organization
faculties
school of theology
it was specified as the school of theology in 1999.
it no longer has the purpose to train clergyman for a particular sect;it has become a faculty where students can study monotheism together with various religions.
it not only has christian theology courses but also those related to judaism and islam.
after graduating the school of theology many students find jobs at general,private-sector companies,in a similar way as students of other departments.
first-and second-year students study at kyotanabe campus,while third-and fourth-year students study at imadegawa campus.
after the 2009 academic year all students were relocated to imadegawa campus.
school of theology
faculty of letters
initially,faculty of letters had a department of english,department of cultural studies and department of sociology,but each major in the department of cultural studies was reorganized into each department when the department of sociology was reorganized as the faculty of social studies in the 2005 academic year.
first-and second-year students study at kyotanabe campus,while third-and fourth-year students study at imadegawa campus.
department of english
department of philosophy
department of psychology
the department of psychology was reorganized as the faculty of psychology,and all students were relocated to kyotanabe from the 2009 academic year.
department of aesthetics and art theory
department of cultural history
department of japanese literature
the evening division for a japanese literature major within the department of cultural studies was abolished in march 2003.
faculty of social studies
welfare studies major,department of cultural studies,faculty of letters(established in april,1941)was the predecessor of the current faculty of social studies.
it was reorganized as welfare studies,faculty of law and letters in october 1944,and the department of sociology,faculty of letters was established in april 1946.
after that,it was reorganized as the faculty of social studies in the 2005 academic year.
first-and second-year students study at kyotanabe campus,while third-and fourth-year students study at imadegawa campus.
after the 2009 academic year all students were relocated to imadegawa campus.
department of sociology
department of social welfare
department of media,journalism,and communications
renamed from newspaper studies major,department of sociology,faculty of letters in april 2004.
department of industrial relations
department of education and culture
faculty of law
department of politics in doshisha school of law and politics established in 1891 grew to become the present faculty of law.
the doshisha school of law and politics was abolished because all professional schools merged together to comply with the act of colleges in 1904,and the doshisha technical school was established.
doshisha university was established in compliance with the acts of colleges in 1912,and faculty of politics and economics was established.
doshisha university was opened in compliance with the acts of colleges in 1920,and the department of political science,faculty of law was established.
the university became doshisha technical school in compliance with the acts of colleges in 1922,and faculty of politics and economics was established.
the higher english department of doshisha technical school and department of law and economics were merged together,and the doshisha technical school of foreign affairs was established in 1944.
also,doshisha university was reorganized in accordance with the acts of colleges in the same year,and the above technical school became the department of politics and economics,faculty of law and letters.
two years later in 1946,the faculty was returned to its original structure,and became the department of political science and department of law within the faculty of law.
the faculty of law was established as a university under a new system in 1948.
the doshisha technical school of foreign affairs merged into doshisha university in 1949 and the technical school was abolished in 1952,integrating the place to pursue studies in politics and law at doshisha.
first-and second-year students study at kyotanabe campus,while third-and fourth-year students study at imadegawa campus.
seminar is not required for graduation.
the evening division was abolished in march 2004.
course system was abolished in april 2005.
there was a time when the students called the 'faculty of a-ho(law)(faculty of stupid),' because it was the faculty for low score applicants from related high schools.
department of law
department of political science
faculty of economics
department of economics at the doshisha school of law and politics established in 1891 grew to become the present faculty of economics.
doshisha school of law and politics was abolished in 1904.
doshisha university was opened in accordance with the acts of colleges in 1912 and the faculty of politics and economics was established.
the faculty of politics and economics was renamed the faculty of law in 1919.
doshisha university was opened in accordance with a new system of the acts of colleges in 1920,and established the department of economics,faculty of law.
the university became doshisha technical school by the acts of colleges in 1922,and established the faculty of politics and economics.
the higher english department of doshisha technical school and the faculty of politics and economics were merged to establish the doshisha technical school of foreign affairs in 1944.
also,doshisha university was reorganized under the acts of colleges in the same year,and the technical school became the department of politics and economics,faculty of law and letters.
two years later in 1946,it returned to its original structure,becoming the department of economics,faculty of law.
the faculty of economics was established under a university with a new system in 1948.
the doshisha technical school of foreign affairs merged into doshisha university in 1949 and the technical school was abolished in 1952,integrating the place to pursue studies in economics at doshisha.
it was specified as the department of economics,faculty of economics in 1999.
the curriculum is established in such a way that most of the specialized courses are four credit,and held two times a week.
consequently,each class is heavily burdened.
the students and applicants advise; 'do not choose the faculty of economics.'
a first-year student is required to take a basic seminar in a small group as a requirement during the spring semester.
it is possible to take the actual seminar from the fall semester of the second year,and it is not a requirement.
therefore,a graduation thesis is not required.
there are about 50 seminars,and the number of students in each seminar varies considerably.
first-and second-year students study at kyotanabe campus,while third-and fourth-year students study at imadegawa campus.
the evening division was abolished in march,2004.
course system was abolished in april 2005.
department of economics
faculty of commerce
the higher faculty of commerce established when doshisha technical school was reorganized in 1922 grew to become the present faculty of commerce.
after that the doshisha technical school was renamed the doshisha higher commerce school in december 1930.
renamed doshisha technical school of commerce in 1944.
the faculty of commerce was established at doshisha university in 1949,and the doshisha technical school of commerce merged into the faculty of commerce of doshisha university,and the doshisha technical school of commerce was abolished in 1952.
specified as the department of commerce,faculty of commerce in 1999.
each grade has little less than 1000 students,and there are many large scale classes.
attendance is taken even in a class of specialized courses,and scores of test of english for international communication(toeic)can be applied for credits,therefore it's easy to earn credits when compared to other faculties,so sometimes students call it the 'fun faculty of commerce(easy).'
it is possible to take a seminar from the spring semester of the third year,and it is not a requirement.
therefore,a graduation thesis is not required.
the curriculum for the faculty of commerce was adopted as a support program for distinctive university education in 2007;a first-year education program aiming to provide an ideal meeting ground between students and teachers-systematic education reform in the large-scale faculty and the measurement of its effect-.
first-and second-year students study at kyotanabe campus,while third-and fourth-year students study at imadegawa campus.
the evening division was abolished in march 2003.
department of commerce
faculty of policy studies
in 2004 doshisha university established a new faculty for the first time in 55 years.
the students can study a wide range of social science without giving too much weight to particular fields such as law,economics,sociology,and so on.
however,due to the many students who are not sure as to what they were in fact studying,it is very important for them to become responsible for their own actions.
they study at imadegawa campus(mainly at shinmachi campus)for four years.
department of policy studies
faculty of culture and information science
the faculty was established in 2005.
it is a unique faculty in japan.
the students collect and analyze information,and learn how to get to the bottom of the culture.
yukio hatoyama was invited as a guest professor,and taught some classes.
the students study at kyotanabe campus for four years.
department of culture and information science
faculty of science and engineering
doshisha harris school of science and chemistry established in 1890 grew to become the present faculty of science and engineering.
doshisha harris school of science and chemistry was renamed the harris school of science in 1892,and renamed the harris school of science,doshisha higher division in 1897.
it merged with the school of literature,doshisha higher division in 1904,and doshisha technical school was established under the acts of colleges,but it was abolished in 1912.
the doshisha engineering college was established in 1994,within which the department of electric communication,department of mechanics,and the department of chemical engineering were established.
the faculty of engineering(department of electricity,department of mechanics,and department of chemical engineering)were established in doshisha university in 1949,therefore doshisha engineering college was integrated into the faculty,and abolished in 1952.
an evening division of the college opened,which signaled the establishment of the department of electrical engineering,department of mechanical engineering,and department of industrial chemical in 1954.
in 1962,department of electricity was renamed the department of electrical engineering,and department of mechanics was renamed department of mechanical engineering.
in march 1963,the evening division was abolished,and in april 1963,the department of electronics,department of second mechanical engineering,and department of chemical engineering were added.
in 1994,the whole faculty of engineering was relocated to kyotanabe campus,and the department of knowledge engineering was added,
department of mechanical engineering,department of the second mechanical engineering,department of industrial chemical,and,department of chemical engineering were respectively reorganized into department of mechanical and systems engineering,department of energy and mechanical engineering,department of molecular science and technology,and department of chemical engineering and material.
the tuition fees for this faculty are the highest in this university as well as those for the faculty of life and medical sciences.
that is why the faculty is sometimes called 'faculty of lack of filial piety.'
the students study at kyotanabe campus for four years.
it was reorganized from the faculty of engineering in the 2008 academic year.
department of intelligent information engineering and sciences
in 1994,faculty of knowledge engineering was established.
in 2006,it was renamed to the department of intelligent information engineering and sciences.
department of information systems design
it opened in the 2004 academic year.
department of electrical engineering
department of electronics
department of mechanical and systems engineering
department of energy and mechanical engineering
department of molecular biology and biochemistry
department of molecular science and technology was opened in 1994.
it was reorganized from the department of molecular science and technology in the 2008 academic year.
department of chemical engineering and materials science
departments of chemical engineering and material science was opened in 1994.
it was reorganized from the department of chemical engineering and material science in the 2008 academic year.
department of environmental systems
opened in the 2004 academic year.
department of mathematical sciences
opened in the 2008 academic year.
faculty of life and medical sciences
the students study at kyotanabe campus for four years.
opened in the 2008 academic year.
department of biomedical engineering
department of biomedical information
department of medical life systems
faculty of health and sports science
the students study at kyotanabe campus for four years.
opened in the 2008 academic year.
department of health and sports science
graduate school
graduate school of theology(first semester,second semester)
a master's program was established in 1950,and a doctoral program was established in 1953.
this is the most historical organization of theology education in japan.
theology major
biblical theology research course
historical theology research course
organizational theology research course
practical theology research course
monotheistic religion research course
graduate school of literature(first semester,second semester)
a master's program was established in 1950,and a doctoral program was established in 1953.
it was divided into graduate school of literature and graduate school of social studies in the 2005 academic year.
philosophy
english literature and english linguistics
it was renamed from english literature major in the 2005 academic year.
cultural history
graduate school of psychology
japanese literature
aesthetics and art theory
graduate school of social studies(first semester,second semester)
it was divided from the graduate school of literature in the 2005 academic year.
social welfare
media studies
it was renamed from newspaper studies major in the 2005 academic year.
education
sociology
industrial relations
graduate school of law(first semester,second semester)
a master's program was established in 1950,and a doctoral program was established in 1953.
political science
private law
public law
graduate school of economics
a master's program was established in 1950,and a doctoral program was established in 1953.
economic theory(first semester)
applied economics(first semester)
economics policy(second semester)
graduate school of commerce(first semester,second semester)
a master's program was established in 1950,and a doctoral program was established in 1953.
commerce
graduate school of engineering(first semester,second semester)
a master's program was established in 1955.
information and computer science
it was reorganized from knowledge engineering as of the 2008 academic year.
electrical and electronic engineering
it was reorganized from electrical engineering as of the 2008 academic year.
mechanical engineering
applied chemistry
science of environment and mathematical modeling
graduate school of culture and information science(first semester,second semester)
a doctoral program(first semester)and a doctoral program(second semester)were stablished in the 2007 academic year.
culture and information science
graduate school of american studies(first semester,second semester)
a master's program was established as an independent research course for research on america for the first time in japan in the 1991 academic year.
in the 1993 academic year,the master's program was renamed to the doctoral program(first semester),while a doctoral program(second semester)was added.
american studies
graduate school of policy and management(first semester,second semester)
general policy science
public policy course
corporate policy course
international policy course
engineering/innovative management(tim)research course
first semester course was established since the 2008 academic year.
social innovation research course
human security research course
graduate school of life and medical sciences(first semester,second semester)
established in the 2008 academic year.
life medical sciences
medical engineering course
medical life systems course
doshisha law school(professional degree course,law school)
established in the 2004 academic year.
students study at kambaikan at muromachi campus.
a mock court and a study room which can be used 24 hours are established in the kambaikan.
the school placed 9th overall in japan,for the number of successful candidates who passed the new bar examination in the 2007 academic year,but the ratio of successful applicants was 35.0%,57 out of 161 examinees.
it was well below the national average of the successful applicants ratio,40.2%.
private universities' successful applicants ratio was also 35.0%,so the examination pass rate was not very high.
graduate school of business(professional degree course)
established in the 2004 academic year.
bekka(a program for foreign students)
center for japanese language and culture
attached facilities
research center
research center for worldwide business
institute for technology,enterprise and competitiveness
center for interdisciplinary study of monotheistic religions
research center for human security
research center for social common capital
center for media and communications research
center of japanese corporation laws studies
center for contemporary asian studies
eu research center
research and development center for bamboo resources
biomimetics research center
energy conversion research center
research center for intelligent information science
center for research in human development
center for studies on emotions,stress,and health
biomedical engineering research center
biomarker research center
research center for inflammation and regenerative medicine
anti-aging research center
institute for language and culture
institute for the study of humanities and social sciences
international institutes of american studies
science and engineering research institute
center for life and medical sciences
research and development center for composite materials
center for japan-korea local governance study
bio-navigation research center
research center for interfacial phenomena
center for japan-korea local governance study
attached facilities
educational development center
intellectual property center
liaison office
office for research initiatives and development
center for christian culture
doshisha rohm plaza
stanford japan center
eu information center
library and information technology center(library,information environment)
with the library,computing center,audiovisual room combined,it was established in 1991.
d-egg(incubation facilities)
tubingen university center for japanese language
akp doshisha international students' center
library
summary
the history of doshisha's library began in 1876 when a reading room was established and joseph hardy neesima(joe niijima),the founder of the university,opened his collection of books to the students in order to lend them out.
the first library(yusyukan)was completed in 1887.
the library was the biggest library in japan at that time.
the second library(present keimeikan south building)was completed in 1915.
the present main building of the keimeikan was completed in 1920.
the present imadegawa library was completed in 1973.
learned memorial library was completed and opened at kyotanabe campus in 1986.
there are 702,309 books in the collection at present(as of end of 2001 academic year).
library list
imadegawa library(imadegawa campus)
learned memorial library(kyotanabe campus)
chronological table
1876:a reading room was established and joseph hardy neesima(joe niijima),the founder of the university,opened his collection of books to the students,beginning to lend them out.
1882:the library books were separated when doshisha school of law and politics opened.
1887:the first library(the present yushukan)was completed.
1912:more books were moved to other shelves because some areas of the library were changed into classrooms.
1915:the second library(the present keimeikan west building)was completed.
1917:the rules for the doshisha library were established.
to put a chief librarian was demanded.
1918:the doshisha office organization was established,and it was determined that a chief librarian and librarians were needed.
moreover,the library came to be regarded an institution equivalent to the main office of doshisha,doshisha university,and doshisha girls' school.
1920:the second main building of the library(present main building of keimeikan)was completed.
the library was reorganized when doshisha university was approved under the university ordinance,and the doshisha women's university library and other libraries became independent.
1921:the first library was renamed yushukan.
1946:the study room of doshisha university library was opened.
1949:regulations to manage the doshisha library were established,and all doshisha libraries were aimed at centralizing book management.
1954:each doshisha school planned to manage its own collection of books independently.
1967:shinmachi reading room opened.
1973:the present imadegawa library was completed.
1976:the eu information center opened.
1986:learned memorial library was completed with the opening of kyotanabe campus.
1991:the academic information center,with a library,computer center and audiovisual room,was opened.
1996:library cards(with bar codes on them)were abolished,and student cards or staff identity cards(magnetic cards)came to be used as library cards.
2001:renamed the library and information technology center.
change in the number of books
archives center
doshisha archive center
history archive center
research
21st century center of excellence program
two projects were adopted as the 21st century center of excellence program.
the year 2003
social science
comprehensive research for engineering,corporations,and international competition
interdisciplinary,composition,new territory
interdisciplinary research for monotheism
promotion of academic research advancement for private universities
high-tech research center project
the 2006 academic year
research center for interfacial phenomena
research on evaluation of physical properties which appear by controlling the fine structure of interfaces.
the 2007 academic year
research and development center for composite materials
development and application of the latest composite materials
high-tech research center
adopted in the 2001 academic year.
graduate school of engineering
research on applied technology of nano hybrid structure
academic frontier promotion program
the 2004 academic year
research center for worldwide business
research with regard to government,nation,and corporation,legal research with regard to corporate behavior of worldwide business,economic research with regard to corporate behavior of worldwide business,and research on new trends of strategic management for worldwide business.
the 2005 academic year
research center for intelligent information science
elucidation of human and creature intelligence and applications thereof.
biomedical engineering research center
new developments on biomedical engineering research-developments of biomaterials and systems of welfare and nursing
the promoting base of academic frontier
adopted in the 1997 academic year.
graduate school of engineering
leading edge materials and compound science,etc.
adopted in the 1998 academic year.
research organization for total humancare support
diversified research concerning a lifelong education of the 'mental' and 'physical' health in an aging society with a declining birthrate.
adopted in the 1999 academic year.
research center for worldwide business
comprehensive research of worldwide business
adopted in the 2000 academic year.
graduate school of engineering
intelligence information science and its application
adopted in the 2003 academic year.
energy conversion research center
next-generation systems with zero-emission energy conversion
adopted in the 2003 academic year.
research organization for total humancare support
research project for total humancare support
education
cooperation with industry,government,schools
doshisha university cooperates with the industry,government,and schools in various ways.
doshisha rohm plaza project
the doshisha rohm plaza project is an extracurricular project aimed at cultural creation and sharing,as well as human resources development for next-generation society through cooperation by industry,government,academia,and local community.
it is operating in the project room at doshisha rohm plaza of kyotanabe campus.
the project is managed mainly by students,and they receive financial and commodity support from doshisha university..
there is the project called the core project,and it manages the entire doshisha rohm plaza project.
the project was chosen as 'creation of "produce technology," human resources training by project based learning,' in the contemporary education needs initiative support program in the 2004 academic year.
project class
in the 2006 academic year, 'project class' was organized as a liberal arts education program common among all grades,which was a practical and student-centered class,being different from the conventional style of classes in which students carried out desk work.
the purpose of this class was to have the students learn real intelligence and arts,and also cultivate ideas of what was happening on the ground,training the ability to think of 'where' the problem is and 'how' it is solved,in collaboration with local communities and companies.
it was adopted as a support program for contemporary educational needs in the 2006 academic year, 'regional revitalization by project based subject invited from the public-aiming to create a model of cycle-oriented activities in cooperation with the local community-.'
skipping a grade system
the skipping a grade system was established whereby a third-year student can enter graduate school if approved as an honor student upon completion of the third year.
a bachelor's degree is not acquired because the student would be considered a college dropout.
double degree system
the double degree system was established to acquire degrees form both the graduate school of engineering and ecole centrale.
double degree system within the school
the students in the doshisha graduate school of engineering and graduate school of business can respectively obtain masters of engineering and masters of business degrees after three-years of study.
foreign language honors
foreign language honors is a prize which was established in the 2006 academic year in order to commend students who achieved excellent results in foreign language classes.
prize winners are commended by the university president,and are recorded on the students' academic transcript.
sponsorship system for the undergraduate students
a system which enables the undergraduate students to start taking master's course classes,so the students can complete the master's program a year after they enter graduate school.
adopted programs
initiative support program for contemporary educational needs
the 2004 academic year
creation of 'produce technology,' human resources training by project based learning
the 2005 academic year
proposals for designs to activate the keihanna intellectual special district-creating a city by students through an educational program to reform the environment and city
fostering professionals in corporate legal work-developing and practicing programs
the 2006 academic year
regional revitalization by project based subject invited from the public-aiming to create a model of cycle-oriented activities in cooperation with the local community-.'
the 2007 academic year
heuristic career education program driven by action plans-a program for supporting the formation of multiple careers through a hands-on general and liberal education which encourages students' self-development
support program for distinctive university education
the 2004 academic year
creation of new cultural education in cooperation with universities
creation of the university community
the 2005 academic year
program for human resource training in cooperation with industry,government,and the local community
the 2006 academic year
maintenance of the information environment,and a shift to strict assessment of school records
the 2007 academic year
a first-year education program aiming to provide an ideal meeting ground between students and teachers-systematic education reform in the large-scale faculty and the measurement of its effect-.
support program for promoting formation of professional graduate schools such as law schools
the 2006 academic year
global innovation for traditional industries project
support program for establishing professional graduate schools including law schools
the 2004 academic year
project for developing and sharing of educational material for teaching practical skills
the 2005 academic year
developing a system to ensure business school education
cyber campus development project
the 2002 academic year
cyber campus development project of doshisha university
initiatives for 'attractive graduate school education'
the 2005 academic year
social innovation study course at the graduate school of policy and management
promotional program for education to accommodate working people's needs to return to school
the 2007 academic year
re-challenge support program for social innovation
student support program based on contemporary social needs
the 2007 academic year
a plan to support students by participation from the local community-cooperation project of different generations based on kyomachiya.
support program for the enhancement of graduate school education
the 2007 academic year
open field education through the collaboration of research centers-graduate school of literature,graduate school of psychology
international theory and practice cycle-oriented education system(fostering advanced professionals who are actively involved in welfare and other fields)-graduate school of social studies,social welfare
course for nurturing electric and communication infrastructure researchers and engineers-graduate school of engineering,electrical engineering
support program for promoting formation of professional graduate schools
the 2007 academic year
national support platform for legal career(cooperating with 13 colleges.applicant was meiji university.)
student's life
extracurricular events
what's on thursdays(wot)
various programs are held at kambaikan hardy hall at muromachi campus such as movies,concerts etc,on every thursday when the university is in session.
students and employees can join free of charge,and it is opened to the local community for a fee.
♭(flat)program
movies,concerts and cultural programs are held in the hello hall at kyotanabe campus every week when the university is in session.
all of these are free,and are open to the local community.
club activities and circle activities
the groups operating at doshisha university are divided into two:those registered with the student support services center and those officially accredited as extracurricular activity groups(gakuyudan groups).
during the orientation period when freshmen enter the university,each group sets up a booth within the campus to fiercely compete for new students.
even free papers are issued because there are too many groups.
because there are many different groups of the same sport,some of them form leagues such as doshisha tennis league(dtl),d-league in soccer,and so on.
groups approved by student support services center
by filling out the registration form and submit it to student support services,they are approved as a registered group
however it is approved on the condition that the required number of students is met,and an adviser is installed.
they will be able to use various school equipment and facilities like the copy machine and conference rooms etc.
there are approximately 230 groups.
groups approved by gakuyudan
groups approved by student support services center can be officially accredited as gakuyudan(extracurricular activity)groups after they pass the examination.
the groups are granted privileges,and moreover,they came to gain more support from the university such as club rooms called box,subsidies,and so on.
about 170 athletic associations also belong to the accredited groups.
school festival
the school festivals of doshisha university are 'doshisha eve' held at kyotanabe campus,and 'doshisha kyotanabe festival' which is held at kyotanabe campus.
both school festivals are opened to the local community.
doshisha eve
it's named 'eve' because the festival is held until november 29 which is the day before the anniversary of the school establishment.
there are booths standing in a row on imadegawa campus,and lives and exhibitions are held in classrooms.
not only the groups accredited by gakuyudan,but also groups registered with the student support services center and students belonging to each seminar open refreshment stalls.
many other universities' students and ordinary people also come to see the festival as well as doshisha university students.
doshisha eve has a long history and has been held about 60 times.
the official name of the festival is "the xxth doshisha eve" where "xx" is not the number of times of the festival but the number of years since the establishment of the doshisha.
this is not a university-led festival,but every year an executive committee of doshisha eve is organized and operates the festival.
although doshisha eve is generally called 'eve festival,' doshisha eve is an opportunity for 'expressing students' activities.'
because the purpose of the school festival is different from that of other universities,it is incorrect to call it 'eve festival.'
the whole university is closed on the following foundation day.
the gay bar' which is held by taisei dorm every year or the costume live which is held by light music club called shibusashirazu at the final day are popular.
the big himalayan cedar around the west gate(the gate which faces karasuma-dori street)is illuminated from around that time to end of the year,that is popular and is also introduced in magazines.
this is the routine in every year,but the tree was not illuminated during the year of the jr fukuchiyama line derailing accident.
doshisha kyotanabe festival(nicknamed:adam festival)
originally there was no school festival held on the kyotanabe campus,but it came to be held as part of the comprehensive agreement with kyotanabe city since the 2005 academic year.
it aims at 'totally new festival in cooperation between university and the local community,' so not only the students but also citizens can partake in the refreshment stalls and performances on stage.
other than the above,artist live performances and ob and og lectures are held.
it is called 'adam festival,' as contrasted with 'doshisha eve' which is held at the imadegawa campus.
this name 'adam' was named from a children's story 'adam and eve,' but the executive committee of eve complained that the origin of doshisha eve' might be misunderstood.
while the university sponsors the event,the planning and operation is carried out by the executive committee of students.
and kyotanabe city is the cosponsor supporting public information etc.
approximately 20,000 visitors.
the festival is held around early november which is earlier than 'eve,' and it is on the same day as the 'cultural festival for citizens' sponsored by kyotanabe city.
sports festival is also celebrated together.
sports festival
it is has been held at kyotanabe campus since the 2002 academic year
it opens in early november the same time as the doshisha kyotanabe festival,and it's open to the local community.
sports
the sports association's baseball team at doshisha university is affiliated with kansai big six baseball league,and the doritsu-game(a match between doshisha and ritsumeikan university)is well known among university baseball fans.
doshisha university wild rover is the nickname of the american football team that originates from the name of the ship that joseph hardy neesima(jo niijima)was on,when he escaped from the country and moved to the united states.
the doshisha rugby team is well known as a very strong team in the kansai college rugby society;they won four times including consecutive wins in the inter-college rugby football championships in the early 80's.
people and organization involved in the university
the organization of people in the university
corporation
doshisha enterprise
alumni association
by area
doshisha alumni association
the alumni association of doshisha university is named 'doshisha alumni association' and its branch associations exist at each location.
by faculty
doshisha university faculty of commerce jutokukai
organized by graduates of the faculty of commerce at doshisha university.
the forerunner is tokushokai established in 1926.
dokeikai
organized by graduates of the faculty of economics at doshisha university.
established in 1961.
doshisha university seihokai
organized by graduates of the faculty of law at doshisha university.
the number of members is approximately 47,000.
established in 1994.
facilities
campus
in addition to the list of campuses below,doshisha has kyomachiya campus(nakagyo ward,kyoto city,kyoto prefecture)
the kyomachiya campus is not on the official site,but it's officially used in the school ad.
although the campus consists of one building of machiya(a traditional form of townhouse found mainly in kyoto)called kokokan,it is widely used by the graduate school of policy and management and the re-challenge support program for social innovation which was adopted as education promotion program responding to working adults' needs for re-learning in the 2007 academic year.
also,the university is planning to open a new campus,and purchased the site of the kyoto textile technology center(approximately 7700 square meters)and is to move in october,2010.
imadegawa campus(kamigyo ward,kyoto city,kyoto prefecture)
summary
imadegawa campus was built on the site where the old residence of the satsuma domain once stood,as well as the residence of the reizei family which stood next to it,the kyoto imperial palace to the south,and sokoku-ji temple to the north.
in the imadegawa campus,five buildings such as doshisha chapel,clarke memorial hall,and so on have been designated as important cultural properties.
these buildings are still currently used for lectures,offices,and worship services,etc.
in the 2010 academic year,doshisha junior high school in imadegawa campus will be moved to doshisha iwakura campus,and integrated with doshisha high school;the site is going to be used by the university.
doshisha women's college of liberal arts,imadegawa campus,doshisha kindergarten,and doshisha girl's junior and senior high school are located adjacently.
imadegawa,shinmachi,and muromachi campuses are close to each other,so the three campuses are usually called imadegawa campus altogether,and used as almost one campus.
history
the campus existed when there was just the doshisha english school that later grew to become doshisha university.
on november 29,1875,when doshisha english school opened,it rented a part of the sasuzane takamatsu's residence(the former residence of niijima now),teramachi marutamachi agaru,kamigyo ward,kyoto city,and it was used as a classroom and a dormitory.
after about half a year,the building was completed on the land which had already been purchased,the present imadegawa,so the school was relocated.
at the time,there were two buildings(the first dormitory,the second dormitory)and these were used as classrooms on the first floor and as a dormitory on second floor.
although the doshisha was established based on christian doctrine,christians were being eliminated in kyoto at the time,so there were continuous campaigns against the doshisha by local residents.
which is why the university made a contract with kyoto prefecture not to teach the bible during classes on the imadegawa campus.
joseph hardy neesima(jo niijima)purchased a former tofu store which was near the current amherst house under niijima's name,and taught the bible there which was outside school grounds.
however,in fact the officer of kyoto prefecture discovered the teaching of the bible at the school,and niijima had to write a letter of apology.
most of the buildings of doshisha were made of bricks,but the first building was made of wood,the first brick building was shoeikan(the oldest brick building existing in kyoto)which was completed in 1884 that was donated from the american board.
the second dormitory was rebuilt at kyotanabe campus in the 1970's.
faculties at imadegawa campus
faculties:third-and fourth-year students of theology,letters,social studies,law,economics,and commerce,and all students of policy studies
graduate schools:theology,letters,social studies,law,economics,commerce,american studies and policy and management
both the faculty of theology and faculty of social studies were moved to imadegawa campus in the 2009 academic year.
department of psychology within the faculty of letters was reorganized as the faculty of psychology,and all students were relocated to the kyotanabe campus in the 2009 academic year.
faculty of commerce,faculty of economics,faculty of law and faculty of letters also plan to relocate to imadegawa campus in the 2010 academic year.
facilities
education facilities
kofukan(k)
the office of the faculty of economics,the office of the faculty of law,and classrooms
shiseikan(s)
the office of the faculty of commerce,and classrooms
divinity hall(g)
the office of the faculty of theology,classrooms,and the chapel of divinity hall
clarke memorial hall(cl)
center for christian culture,classrooms,clarke chapel
meitokukan(m)
cafeteria,student store,classrooms,educational development center,research support division,and student lounge
tokushokan
the office of the faculty of letters and the graduate school of literature
hakuenkan
classrooms,graduate school joint library,the office of the international institute of american studies and the graduate school of american studies,and the office of graduate school of policy and management
imadegawa library
it contains the eu information center,and has a rich collection of books and reports concerning the eu.
fusokan(f)
research center for worldwide business,research center for human security,research center for social common capital,international center(international department),japanese and japanese cultural education center(department of international education),department of books in co-op
keimeikan
institute for the study of humanities and social sciences,doshisha archives center
sports facilities
none
other facilities
harris science hall
entrance examination center,public relations division,admission office,alumni association division
yushukan
general affairs division
chienkan
human resource department,accounting department,finance department,education department,planning department
access
near imadegawa station,karasuma line of the kyoto municipal subway
shinmachi campus(kamigyo ward,kyoto city,kyoto prefecture)
summary
rinkokan mainly used for the faculty of policy studies and the faculty of social studies was rebuilt and completed in the fall of 2005.
rinkokan is located at a former site of a residence of konoe family which is one of the sekke(regent family).
even now the remains are buried underground.
and there is a student hall used for the base of circle activities.
rinkokan was newly built,and before faculty of policy studies opened,many foreign language classes were offered here for a second time.
the students who had to go to shinmachi campus(jinshinkan z)were called 'z warriors.'
imadegawa,shinmachi,and muromachi campuses are close to each other,so they are often called imadegawa campus altogether,and almost used as a single campus.
history
shinmachi campus was established in 1959 at a former site of the headquarters of gs yuasa corporation.
faculties at shinmachi campus
faculties:mainly third-and fourth-year students of social studies,all students of policy studies,and foreign language classes
graduate schools:none
facilities
education facilities
rinkokan
classrooms,the office of the faculty of social studies,the office of the faculty of policy studies
jinshinkan(z)
classroom,department of facilities,department of the administration of property
keisuikan
the branch office of the faculty of social studies,the branch office of the faculty of policy and studies
sports facilities
ikushinkan(gym)
other facilities
student hall
new building of shinmachi
access
three minutes from imadegawa station,karasuma line of the kyoto municipal subway
muromachi campus(kamigyo ward,kyoto city,kyoto prefecture)
summary
muromachi campus is located across the imadegawa campus the karasuma-dori street from the imadegawa campus.
it was built on the site where the old university hall once stood,and named in march,2004,when kambaikan was completed,and only kambaikan is called muromachi campus.
the total floor space is 18,115 square meters;the restaurant 'hamac de paradis' is on the first floor and the french restaurant 'second house will' is on the seventh floor.
also there is a large-scale hall used for lectures or movies.
imadegawa,shinmachi,and muromachi campuses are close to each other,so they are often called imadegawa campus altogether,and almost used as a single campus.
history
it was the site where the former university hall used to be,and kambaikan was completed in march 2004.
the university hall was relocated to the shinmachi annex.
faculties at muromachi campus
faculties:none(seminars of the faculty of law are held)
graduate schools:law school and graduate school of business
facilities
education facilities
kambaikan(kmb)
student support services center,career center,health center,liaison office,the office of doshisha law school,the office of business school,engineer/corporation/international competition research center,itec research room,hardy hall,clover hall,conference room,classrooms
sports facility
none
other facilities
hamac de paradis,kambaikan
a café restaurant located on the first floor in muromachi campus.
during lunch time,they serve foods at low prices,but they are a little bit more expensive than those served at the school cafeteria of doshisha co-op.
during the evening,the prices change,and alcoholic drinks are also served.
friendly meetings are often held here after the events at kambaikan.
not only students but also ordinary people use this place.
the interior designer was yasumichi morita.
second house will
a french restaurant located on the seventh floor of the kambaikan in muromachi campus.
prices are set slightly expensive,it's used more like a normal restaurant rather than as a school cafeteria.
it commands a fine view,and you can see the gozan okuribi(mountain bon fire)while eating.
access
near imadegawa station,karasuma line of the kyoto municipal subway
kyotanabe campus(kyotanabe city,kyoto prefecture)
summary
there is a sports facility,sports-oriented club activities and circle activities which are held here.
it is also a base of research for the science and technological faculties,which is suggested by the fact that doshisha rohm plaza based on support from rohm is located here.
but since it takes about one hour by train and bus(transportation)from imadegawa campus,some students complain about it.
some works are under consideration,for example,relocation of the humanities faculties for the first-year and second-year students from kyotanabe campus to imadegawa campus,establishment of faculty of psychology on kyotanabe campus in accordance with the reform of department of psychology in the faculty of literature,and so on.
when kyotanabe campus was built,school roads were also made from the kodo station on the kintetsu kyoto line to the university,but it takes less time to go through the residential streets rather than going along the school roads,and the students do not have to cross the elevated bridge above the doshishamae station,so many students do not use the school roads.
the problem was televised on the voice of mainichi broadcasting(news).
history
land was purchased in kyotanabe city(tanabe-cho in those days)by the doshisha to satisfy the university establishment standards because imadegawa campus was getting more crowded each year.
the basic plan regarding tanabe campus' was approved by the board of directors of doshisha on august 14,1965,and the committee for campus expansion was organized on august 25,1965,and the professional committee of the land in tanabe was organized on december 4,1965.
on september 7 of the following 1966,the university made a land contract with kinki nippon railway company,and also purchased land the next year in 1967.
the university first purchased an area approximately 470,000 square meters,and together with their second purchase,the land purchased totaled approximately 1000,000 square meters.
twenty years after its purchase on march 27,1986,a ceremony for completion was held together with the doshisha women's college of liberal arts at the keishinkan of doshisha women's college of liberal arts.
when it opened,the first-and second-year students in each faculty studied there,but in 1994 the entire faculty of engineering(the present faculty of science and engineering)was moved.
soon after it was founded,there were many complaints from students and teachers,so the problems were raised in the school newspaper.
faculties at kyotanabe campus
faculties:first-and second-year students of the faculty of theology,letters,social studies,commerce,and all students of the faculty of culture and information science,life and medical sciences,health and sports science,engineering
graduate schools:graduate school of engineering,graduate school of life and medical sciences,graduate school of culture and information science
faculty of theology and faculty of social studies were moved to imadegawa campus in the 2009 academic year.
the department of psychology within the faculty of letters was reorganized as the faculty of psychology in the 2009 academic year,and all students were relocated to kyotanabe campus.
the faculty of commerce,the faculty of economics,the faculty of law,and the faculty of letters are also planning to relocate to imadegawa campus in the 2010 academic year.
facilities
education facilities
doshisha rohm plaza(rm)
it has a big well-style hall and many events are held here.
in addition to a project room for the rohm memorial plaza project,career center and the general affairs department of university are located.
it and media center
many courses that use computers are offered.
chishinkan1(tc1)
there are many small classrooms,and a lot of small-class subjects such as english and second foreign languages are held here.
chishinkan2(tc2)
it has large classrooms,for example,two of them seat 1000 students,and so on.
compulsory subjects,teacher training courses,and general education subjects are mainly held here.
chishinkan3(tc3)
mainly for nature science classes.
mukokukan(mk)
the office of faculty of culture and information science and the graduate school of culture and information science,classrooms
keidokan(kd)
classrooms
sokokan(so)
laboratories
banjokan
office of the faculty of health and sports science,education section of the registration administration center,classrooms
science building(rg)
the office of the faculty of science and engineering and the graduate school of engineering,the office of the science and engineering research institute,classrooms
kochikan
kokikan
energy conversion research center
keikikan
shoshinkan(ts)
department of information systems,information processing room.
shishinkan(sc)
hoshinkan(hs)
ishinkan
the office of the faculty of life and medical sciences
kohakukan
institute for language and culture
learned memorial library
library
sports facilities
rugby ground
american football ground
soccer ground
archery court
japanese archery court
firing range
riding ground
baseball ground
baseball ground for rubber-ball
softball ground
tennis court(hard ball,soft ball)
volleyball court
outdoor swimming pool
davis memorial auditorium
inline skate court
golf practice range
other facilities
shigyokan
educational affairs center,student support service center,international center,department of facilities at kyotanabe campus
korinkan
instructor's room,joint research room
center for christian culture
health center
stable
automobile driver's training ground
glider hangar
kyotanabe annex
gyoseikan(d-egg incubation facility)
access
access:get off at doshishamae station on the katamachi line or kodo station of the kintetsu kyoto line.
nara kotsu bus runs from shintanabe station on kintetsu kyoto line,and miyamaki station on kintetsu kyoto line.
you can take a bus for 'wel sunpia kyoto' and get off at 'doshisha daigaku seimon' or take a bus for 'doshisha daigaku davis kinenkan' which enters the campus.
kansai science city campus(kizugawa city,kyoto prefecture)
summary
in december,2005,it was established on the site where canon ecology research institute once stood after purchasing the land.
it is utilized as a new science and technological research facility in mutual cooperation with the adjacent gakkentoshi hospital and so on in the field of medical engineering.
the space for the site is approximately 50,000 square meters,the space for the building is approximately 8,500 square meters.
faculties at kansai science city campus
facilities
education facilities
kaifukan(laboratories,research rooms,conference rooms)
sports facilities
tennis court
other facilities
none
access
six minutes from 'keinawa-dori' by nara kotsu bus from hosono station of the katamachi line or shin-hosono station of the kintetsu kyoto line.
also,15 minute walk from kizugawadai station of kintetsu kyoto line.
the campus once existed
iwakura campus
the land where doshisha high school and doshisha elementary school are now located(sakyo ward,kyoto city,kyoto prefecture)was used for sports by doshisha university.
school cafeteria
there are five cafeterias and specialty stores at kyotanabe campus because there are no restaurants in the neighborhood.
auditorium
hardy hall
the big hall on the first basement level of the kambaikan at muromachi campus.
it can accommodate 1,000 people.
a movie is shown for wot(what's on thursdays)on thursdays.
movies are put on the screen by movie circles,and students group events are held,and moreover,many lectures are given.
there is a part time job which is called hall art.
clover hall
the small hall on the first basement level of the kambaikan at muromachi campus.
it can accommodate 1,000 people using portable seats.
as in hardy hall,various events are held here.
student council dormitory
the big feature of the student dormitory of doshisha university is that it is managed and run by the students who live there.
it is different from the typical dormitory image where the university comprehensively carries out management.
doshisha university calls the idea of self-management by the students 'philosophy of autonomy.'
philosophy of autonomy' is the idea that students who live in the dormitory manage and run the place even though the land and building belong to the university.
in fact,the relationship with the university in the management of dormitory keeps certain tension,and they take the spirit of autonomy seriously while negotiating.
the dormitory is based on 'philosophy of autonomy,' so it is called an 'autonomous dormitory' in doshisha university.
the idea of an 'autonomous dormitory came from a student movement.
around the period when the student movement in the showa period flourished,there was a tendency toward sovereign independence among the japanese universities,and at the doshisha university dormitory such an ideology was born,thus creating the trend which took the idea of gaining autonomy seriously.
the relationship between the dormitory and doshisha university has been positive since the 1990s.
in the past,the dormitory produced persons who became a trustee of the educational foundation of doshisha,and in 2004,a ceremony and other events were held inviting trustees.
dormitories are basically separated by sex,but amherst dormitory in imadegawa campus is the only mixed dormitory.
men and women's dormitory
amherst dormitory
the name amherst came from amherst university in the united states where joseph hardy neesima(jo niijima)went to study.
with approximately 65,000 dollars in donations collected,construction was started in august 1931,and the first 21 people started to live in the dormitory in may 1932.
the selection of applicants is conducted from february to march.
recruitment stopped from the 2006 academic year because it is currently under construction.
men's dormitory
taisen dormitory
the selection of applicants is done twice a year,the end of february and the beginning of march.
the 'okama bar(gay bar)' which opens a stall at doshisha eve is the popular event every year.
shishun dormitory
the selection of applicants is done in the beginning of march.
soto dormitory
the selection of applicants is done in the beginning of march over two days and one night.
gyosei dormitory
the selection of applicants is done at the beginning of march.
drc house
the rugby team dormitory
the ob association of doshisha university rugby team rents the whole building.
women's dormitory
shoin dormitory
the selection of applicants is done in the beginning of march.
hitotsubu dormitory
the selection for applicants is done twice,at the end of february and at the beginning of march.
the dormitory once existed
hawai dormitory
it was donated in 1936 from mr.and mrs.richards who were residents of honolulu and were concerned about the poor relationship with japan and united states.
it has a history that it was requisitioned and used as a dormitory for nisseki nurses.
it was also the residence of inazo nitobe who was a director of doshisha for five years when he was in kyoto.
it was in the vortex of the student's revolution in the 1970's and it was confined by the foreigner corps.
because of that,the management of the dormitory committee was dissolved and it became an autonomous dormitory in 1972.
the dormitory was closed in 1988,and was reborn as the doshisha friend peace house(now a registered tangible cultural properties)in 1997.
oto dormitory
iwakura dormitory
richard's house
there is a dormitory at doshisha university which is managed and operated by the university,which is very different from the autonomy dormitory.
this dormitory is a women's dormitory for foreign and japanese students living together.
it was built for the purpose of international and cultural exchange.
the selection for applicants has two stages,and is done in december.
the selection is done by the international center for foreign students,and the department of student support for japanese students.
the term for staying in the dormitory is one or two years,and students have to move out during summer vacation in order to accommodate short term exchange students.
external relationships
agreement with the local government
cooperation with the urban renaissance agency 'keihanna intellectual special district' (initiative support program for contemporary educational needs)
doshisha yamate,minamitanabe kita area,kyotanabe city
the comprehensive agreement with kyotanabe city(concluded in 2005)
kyotanabe city
cooperation for education,culture,improvement of welfare,promotion and improvement of sports
cooperation for the promotion of local industry and the creation of new industries
cooperation for human resource cultivation
cooperation for community renovation
cooperation for other necessities
agreement with an independent administrative corporation
japan student services organization(jasso)
it has cooperated with network for academic support for students with physical challenges as a base school since 2006.
accounting school
accounting school is not established in doshisha university,but it is a semi-member's school.
cooperation with medical corporations
iseikai
iseikai gakkentoshi hospital is close to kansai science city campus,and they have concluded a comprehensive agreement with the faculty of science and engineering and the faculty of life and medical sciences.
cooperation with other colleges
cooperation on comprehensive education exchange
kyoto prefecture university of medicine
internal mutual exchange student system
waseda university
this is for the purpose of broadening student horizons through study in different areas and climates,as well as developing their personality:doshisha university students study at tokyo,which is the center of politics,economy,and culture,while waseda university students at kyoto,which takes pride in japanese traditional culture and history.
also it is related to the fact that the school founders joseph hardy neesima(jo niijima)and shigenobu okuma had a good relationship.
credit transfer system
doshisha women's college of liberal arts
it's possible to take classes concerning music and so on which doshisha university does not have.
not only female students but also male students can take the classes,and about 100 students attend them every year.
consortium of universities in kyoto
ritsumeikan university
kansai university(graduate school)
kwansei gakuin university(graduate school)
the program for the acquisition of a license to become an elementary school teacher(type one)
kobe shinwa women's university
the agreement has been concluded since the 2006 academic year.
in doshisha university,it was impossible for students to get a license to teach in elementary schools,but thanks to the agreement it became possible.
kyoto graduate union of religious studies
otani university graduate school of literature
koyasan university graduate school of literature
shuchiin university faculty of buddhist studies
hanazono university graduate school of literature
bukkyo university graduate school of literature
ryukoku university graduate school of literature
established in 2005.
the purpose is to expand the curriculum utilizing the character of each religion and denomination,and educating the professionals of religion.
the regular research meeting and an open symposium are held,and credit transfer system has started since the 2006 academic year.
koyasan university tantric buddhist culture,international association of shin buddhist studies,japan association of religion and ethics,research institute of the materials of esoteric buddhism,shuchiin university,doshisha university center for interdisciplinary study of monotheistic religions,nanzan institute for religion and culture,ncc center for the study of japanese religions,nippon christian academy and ryukoku university research institute for buddhist culture are all affiliated as a cooperation group.
library agreement
waseda university
ritsumeikan university
ryukoku university
kyoto sangyo university
kansai university
kwansei gakuin university
consortium of universities in kyoto
national institute of informatics(affiliation)
agreement with overseas schools
university of cambridge
university of london
university of edinburgh
university of sheffield
university of york
norwegian university of science and technology
university of helsinki
consortium japonais du college doctoral franco-japonais
university of aix-marseille iii
university of paris x
city of paris industrial physics and chemistry higher educational institution
ecole centrale de lille
national graduate school of engineering chemistry of lille
ecole centrale de lille,ecole centrale de nantes
goteborg university,school of business,economics,and law
university of warsaw
charles university in prague
universidad de salamanca
university of vienna
eberhard karls universitat tubingen
johannes gutenberg-universitat mainz
ludwig-maximilians-universitat munchen
universitat hamburg
humboldt-universitat zu berlin
universitat zurich
university of milan
hebrew university
the school of the qur'an-the abunour islamic
royal institute for inter-faith studies
chonnam national university
ewha womans university
seoul women's university
methodist theological university
methodist theological university(seoul)
tribhuvan university
de la salle university
university of the philippines diliman
thammasat university
peking university-department of history
fudan university
northwest university
ocean university of china
renmin university of china
wuhan university
xidian university
chinese university of hong kong
xi'an jiaotong university
international islamic university
gadjah mada university
university of melbourne
university of new south wales
university of sydney
university of wollongong
victoria university of wellington
amherst college
university of wisconsin law school(agreement concluded on educational exchange in the graduate school of law)
bates college
bucknell university
carleton college
colby college
connecticut college
kalamazoo college
middlebury college
mount holyoke college
oberlin college
pomona college
smith college
stanford university
university of california
university of hawaii
wellesley college
wesleyan university
whitman college
williams college
michigan state university
university of wisconsin
duke university
university of washington
hartford seminary
university of north carolina at chapel hill
victoria university(canada)
university of winnipeg
universidad de las americas
universidad torcuato di tella
pontificia universidad catolica de chile
agreements with high schools
shiga gakuen high school(since the 2008 academic year)
education cooperation agreements with christian high schools
niijima gakuen junior&senior high school
hokuriku gakuin high school
nagoya junior high school/senior high school
omi brotherhood schools
kyushu gakuin lutheran high school,junior high school
related schools
niijima gakuen junior&senior high school in gunma prefecture was established by shoji yuasa(the family head of aritaya),who sympathized the philosophy of the founder of the doshisha,joseph hardy neesima(jo niijima),on the basis of the philosophy,however,it does not mean that the doshisha established niijima gakuen junior&senior high school although the school shares the same philosophy.
however,the school has quotas for recommendation to doshisha university,and the junior&senior high schools mingle with doshisha junior&senior high schools,so it was written here for reference.
niijima gakuen junior&senior high school
niijima gakuen junior college
affiliated schools
doshisha related schools are not attached to the university,and they have been considered independent schools which were established by the educational foundation,doshisha.
however,doshisha elementary school is treated as an attached school to the university by management,so it is mentioned in the section of attached schools.
college
doshisha women's college of liberal arts
high school
doshisha high school
schools integrating junior and senior high schools
doshisha girls' junior and senior high school
doshisha kori junior·senior high school
doshisha international junior/senior high school
junior high school
doshisha junior high school
kindergarten
doshisha kindergarten
relation with the society
jr fukuchiyama line derailing accident
many students were on the train to attend classes in the second period,when the accident occurred:3 students were killed and 34 students were injured.
one of the factors which increased the damage was the structure of doshishamae station,which was regarded as problematic(see the section of doshishamae station for further details).
cultural properties
the following cultural properties exist at doshisha university.
important cultural properties
below are the important cultural properties at doshisha university specified by japanese government.
buildings
doshisha chapel(imadegawa campus)
number:1575
type 1:school architecture
specified date:july 1,1963
era:1886
structure form:built of brick,space of building:316.0 square meters,one story building,partly mezzanine and basement,plate roof
designed by d.c.greene,it was completed in 1886.
american gothic brick building with an iron roof.
it was built with a donation from the american board.
it is the oldest protestant brick chapel existing in japan.
constructed by kichibei mikami who built yushukan.
it was described that 'five colors of light are falling' in "black and brown eyes" which is a novel by roka tokutomi,because the stained glass was beautiful.
it was specified an important cultural property in 1963,and renovation was done from 1987 to 1990.
currently it is utilized as a chapel,and worship is open every week.
also it is possible for those people related to doshisha to have a wedding ceremony on the weekend.
this is the second chapel as the chapel of the doshisha(the first chapel was built of wood)
yushukan(imadegawa campus)
number:1575
type 1:school architecture
specified date:may 21,1979
era:1887
structure style:the building has a brick exterior and a pantiled roof(except interior decoration);two-story building with a basement;building;building area:352.3 square meters
the imperial palace where an enthronement ceremony is held is next to doshisha imadegawa campus,so the school authorities carried out strict guarding of the campus during the enthronement ceremony.
however,when a big wooden brazier in the guardroom heated up,a fire broke out.
because of that,the president danjo ebina,director and inspector assumed the responsibility and resigned.
doshisha was blamed as though being a traitor.
the surviving framework of yushukan was to be removed,but goichi takeda,a constructor of doshisha girls' school,recommended repairing and preserving the building.
yushukan was finally preserved by making reinforced concrete walls which were 15 cm in thickness on the outside walls.
the name of yushukan was given by the president danjo ebina when it finished functioning as a library.
harris science hall
number:1575
type 1:school architecture
specified date:may 21,1979
era:1890
structure style:the building has a brick exterior and a pantiled roof;a laboratory is located in the northeast section of the building;building area:587.0 square meters(except interior decoration other than staircase).
it was established by donations from jonathan n harris of new london(state of connecticut),connecticut in the united states of america.
the designer is alex n.hansell who was a member of the royal institute of british architects.
being a brick building in english bond,it was completed in 1890.
it was specified as an important cultural property on may 21,1979.
clarke memorial hall(imadegawa campus)
number:1575
type 1:school architecture
specified date:may 21,1979
era:1894
structure style:the building has a brick exterior and a pantiled roof;a penthouse with a copper roof is located in the southwest section of the building;building area:389.4 square meters
one book of construction specifications,etc.,one volume of construction plans
it is a german neo-gothic style building,and people in doshisha university consider that 'the impressive steeple is a symbol of doshisha university.'
it was established by a donation of 6,000 dollars from mr.and mrs.b.w clarke on behalf of their son(byron stone clark)who died at age 27.
for that reason,the inscription 'the study of the world of god was dear to him' can be seen on the wall of the first floor.
it was called the clarke theology building when it was opened in 1894,and it was used as a base of education and research on theology.
along with 'blueprint' and 'specification of a newly built building,' it was specified as a national important cultural property in may 1979.
the reconstruction was done with approximately one billion yen from january 2003 to february 2008.
at this time,the parts reconstructed by the posterity were removed,and restored to their original state.
in the doshisha eve held in the 2006 academic year,an event to write a line or two on the doi roof tiles,which was used in the repair work and said to last 100 years,was held.
shoeikan(doshisha junior high school)
designed by d.c.greene,it was completed in 1884.
american-gothic brick building with a tiled roof.
it was built with a donation from the american board.
it is the oldest brick building currently existing in kyoto city.
nation's registered tangible cultural properties
below are the registered tangible cultural properties at doshisha university,which are designated by the japanese government.
buildings
amherst house(imadegawa campus)
registered number:26-0200
three-storied,one basement building with reinforced concrete structure,slate roof,space of the building:343 square meters
era:1874
location,632 sokoku-ji monzen-cho,imadegawa-dori karasuma higashi-iru,kamigyo ward,kyoto city,kyoto prefecture
date of record on the original registration book:november 10,2005
date of official notice:december 5,2005
cornerstone laid:november 29,1931
completed:march 20,1932
features symmetrical outlook with new england/georgia style.
it was specified as a tangible cultural property(building)on june 27,2005.
it is used as the student's dormitory(amherst dormitory),but is currently under reconstruction.
it was designed by william merrell vories.
the builder was shimizu-gumi.
doshisha keimeikan main building(imadegawa campus)
registered number:26-0256
five-storied building with brick and reinforced concrete structure,slate roof,space of the building:406 square meters
era:1920
location:602-1 genbu-cho,imadegawa-dori karasuma higashi-iru,kamigyo ward,kyoto city,kyoto prefecture
date of record on the original registration book:july 31,2007
date of official notice:august 13,2007
it was completed in 1920 as a library(the second university library).
it was designed by william merrell vories.
during world war ii,it was in the 'do not bomb list of cultural properties in japan' which was submitted by dr.landon warner.
it was renamed 'keimeikan' upon the completion of the current library(the third university library)in december 1973.
it was registered on july 31,2007.
doshisha keimeikan west building(imadegawa campus)
registered number:26-0257
four-storied building with brick and reinforced concrete structure,slate roof,space of the building:153 square meters,with a passage connecting two buildings
era:1915
location:602-1 genbu-cho,imadegawa-dori karasuma higashi-iru,kamigyo ward,kyoto city,kyoto prefecture
date of record on the original registration book:july 31,2007
date of official notice:august 13,2007
it was completed in 1915 as a library(the second university library).
it was designed by william merrell vories.
it was renamed 'keimeikan' upon completing the current library(the third university library)in december 1973.
it was registered on july 31,2007.
doshisha friend peace house
registered number:26-0206
two-storied building built with wood,tiled roof,space of the building:248 square meters
era:in the middle of the meiji period
location:665-1 somedono-cho,teramachi-dori ishiyakushi-sagaru,kamigyo ward,kyoto city,kyoto prefecture
date of record on the original registration book:march 2,2006
date of official notice:march 23,2006
it used to be the hawaii dormitory of doshisha university,and is currently utilized as doshisha friend peace house.
others
the remains of residence of satsuma domain(imadegawa campus)
the area around imadegawa campus used to be the residence of satsuma domain.
it was relocated from nakagyo ward,kyoto city in 1862,and became a base of the movement to overthrow the shogunate,as concluded in satsuma-choshu alliance.
the remains of the konoe family residence(shinmachi campus)
the area around rinkokan in shinmachi campus used to be the residence of the konoe family,a court noble family which was one of the sekke(regent family).
it is still currently kept in the basement in rinkokan.
cobble stone artifact(muromachi campus)
it was discovered in 2002 during excavation research prior to the construction of kambaikan.
an unglazed earthenware from the 16th century was discovered in the cobble stones.
it was assumed that the area around kambaikan used to be hana no gosho(palace of flowers)which the 12th shogun yoshiharu ashikaga rebuilt according to rakuchu rakugai-zu(painting of kyoto and its surroundings);these cobble stones are assumed to be the groundwork for the building at the northeast corner and the tile-roofed mud wall at its south because the things discovered and rakuchu rakugai-zu match.
at present,one can see part of the discovery under the same condition as when it was discovered at kambaikan.
dinosaur's foot print(imadegawa campus)
there is a dinosaur's foot print at the passage connecting amherst house and the guest house.
this foot print was discovered in the ravine in connecticut of new england,the united states of america,and it is described as 'a foot print on sand of the time'
prehistoric foot print was presented as imagination of the long ties from the 'new world' to the 'old world' of asia between the doshisha and amherst college,and the united states of america and japan.
attached school
elementary school
doshisha elementary school
the university website ranking operated by gomez consulting co.,ltd.in august,2007 rated doshisha at the third place among 131 college websites.
the overwhelming volume of statistical data,and characteristic contents such as the cyber president room and doshisha quiz were the main reasons for winning the third place.
it was ranked 20th in terms of user-friendliness,and 2nd in terms of information disclosure and innovativeness.
