kyoto koto sangyo gakko
kyoto koto sangyo gakko(kyoto sericulture high school)founded in 1914 was a vocational school under the old-education system.
in 1931,it was renamed 'kyoto koto sanshi gakko' (kyoto silk high school),and again,in 1944,it was renamed 'kyoto seni senmon gakko' (kyoto textile vocational school).
this section describes the two renamed schools and its predecessor,kyoto sangyo koshu-jo(kyoto training institute of sericulture).
summary
its predecessor was(nihon)kyoto sangyo koshu-jo((japanese)kyoto training institute of sericulture)founded in 1899 under the ministry of agriculture and commerce.
it was transferred from the ministry of agriculture and commerce to the ministry of education in the early taisho period and became 'kyoto koto sangyo gakko' (kyoto sericulture high school).(it was in the broad category of 'agriculture and forestry high school')
in 1931,it was renamed 'kyoto koto sanshi gakko' (kyoto silk high school)because 'the silk reeling course' was added.
during world war ⅱ,it was renamed 'kyoto seni senmon gakko' abbreviated as 'kyoto sen-sen' (kyoto textile vocational school).
in the reform of the education system,it became the original body of the faculty of textile science(present-day,the school of science and technology)in kyoto kogei seni daigaku(kyoto institute of technology)established under the new education system.
the alumni association of the school is named 'kinugasa doso-kai' (kinugasa association).
it is a joint alumni association of the old system and the new system(the former faculty of textile science)('kinugasa association' is going to be merged with 'the alumni association of kyoto institute of technology,' since the faculty of engineering and design and the faculty of textile and science were integrated into the school of science and technology in 2006).
history
the days of 'kyoto sangyo koshu-jo' (kyoto training institute of sericulture)
on march 30,1899:the number of training institutes for sericulture increased due to a revision of the system for national training institutes of sericulture(edict no.89).
in june 1899:the establishment of 'kyoto sangyo koshu-jo' (kyoto training institute of sericulture)was publicly announced(an announcement by the ministry of agriculture and commerce,no.61).
the regular course(two-year term)/the special course(five-month term)
in 1901:shigetane ishiwata,an engineer(later,the head of the institute)discovered kaiko sotto-byo-kin(a gram-positive,soil-dwelling bacterium)from silkworms.
in 1915, 'kaiko sotto-byo-kin' was formally named 'bacillus thuringiensis' by ernest berliner.
in 1902:the training course for sericulture was created.(the course term was changed:the regular course term was two years/the special course term was six months)
the training course for silk reeling was created,but was not actually opened.
in 1905:the regular course term changed to three years.
the requirements for admission:17 years of age or over,graduated from junior high school under the old-education system(whose level was the same as a vocational school under the old-education system).
in 1906:the journal of the graduate association, "kinugasa sanyu kai-ho" (the journal of kinugasa sericulture association)was first issued.
in 1921: "kinugasa sanyu kai-ho" was renamed "kinugasa san-po" (the journal of kinugasa sericulture).
in 1940:the journal was discontinued.
in 1908:the women's course was established(the course term was two years).
on june 13,1913:kyoto training institute of sericulture was transferred from the ministry of agriculture and commerce to the ministry of education.
the days of 'kyoto koto sangyo gakko' (kyoto sericulture high school)
on april 1,1914:kyoto sangyo koshu-jo(kyoto training institute of sericulture)was renamed kyoto koto sangyo gakko(kyoto sericulture high school)(due to a revision of the system for schools under the direct control of the ministry of education by the edict no.44 issued on march 31).
the regular course(three-year term)/the special course(six-month term)
in july 1914:the first graduation ceremony was held.
the graduates were students who enrolled at its predecessor,kyoto sangyo koshu-jo(kyoto training institute of sericulture).
in april 1915:the women's course was closed down.
in 1920:sanshu-ka(the silkworm eggs course)was added to the regular course.
the existing regular course was renamed yosan-ka(the sericulture course).
the term of the special course was extended to one year.
since the spring of this year,bm festival(a memorial service for silkworms,known by the scientific name of bombyx mori)has been held.
in march 1921:the school song was established.
the title of the school song is "kojin ato todomezaru" (once sandstorms are blown into the sky by strong winds,they leave no traces of their existence on the ground)(the songwriter was unknown and the composer was ryutaro hirota).
it was also said that the songwriter might be masumi shitsubuchi.
in april 1923:saga so-en(saga mulberry field)was created in saga-village,kadono-province(present-day,saga ippongi-cho,ukyo ward).
in 1924:the special course was renamed yosan-jitsuka(the practical sericulture course).
in february 1931:seishi-ka(the silk reeling course)was added to the regular course.
the days of kyoto koto sanshi gakko(kyoto silk high school)
in march 1931:kyoto koto sangyo gakko(kyoto sericulture high school)was renamed kyoto koto sanshi gakko(kyoto silk high school).
the regular course:yosan-ka(the sericulture course),sanshu-ka(the silkworm eggs course),seishi-ka(the silk reeling course).
in september 1934:the muroto typhoon partially destroyed the biological experiment laboratory.
in june 1937:the silk reeling course for women was created.(the term was two years.)
in april 1942:seni kagaku-ka(the textile and chemistry course)was added to the regular course.
the days of kyoto seni senmon gakko(kyoto textile vocational school)
on april 1,1944:kyoto koto sanshi gakko(kyoto silk high school)was renamed kyoto seni senmon gakko(kyoto textile vocational school).
the faculties for the regular course:the faculty of silk(specializing in sericulture/specializing in silk reeling)/the faculty of textile and chemistry/the faculty of textile and agriculture(newly established)/the faculty of spinning and weaving(transferred from fukui technical high school).
saga so-en(saga mulberry field)was renamed saga no-jo(saga farm).
in 1945:the term of the faculty of silk reeling for women was shortened into one year.
in april 1946:the faculty of silk was divided into the faculty of sericulture and the faculty of silk reeling.
in 1947:the spinning training factory was established.
in march 1948:the faculty of silk reeling for women was closed down.
in july 1948:an application for approval of establishing "kyoto kogei seni daigaku" (kyoto institute of technology)was submitted in conjunction with kyoto koto kogei gakko(kyoto polytechnic high school).
on may 31,1949:kyoto kogei seni daigaku(kyoto institute of technology)was established under the new education system.
kyoto textile vocational school under the old system was included as the original body of the faculty of textile and science(the faculty of sericulture/the faculty of silk spinning/the faculty of textile and chemistry).
the headquarters of kyoto institute of technology were located in higashi-iru,ichijo onmae-dori,kamigyo ward,where the former inspection center of raw silk was placed.
it was in the middle of the faculty of engineering and design(whose predecessor was kyoto technical vocational school located in matsugasaki,sakyo ward)and the faculty of textile and science.
in march 1951:kyoto textile vocational school was abolished.
campus
the campus was placed in the area stretching from oaza taishogun,kinugasa-village,and kadono county(present-day,sakata-cho,taishogun,kita ward,kyoto city),which it took over from its predecessor,kyoto sangyo koshu-jo(kyoto training institute of sericulture),to hanazono-village(present-day,takatsukasa-cho,hanazono,ukyo ward,kyoto city).
the kinugasa campus was inherited from the kyoto koto sanshi gakko(kyoto silk high school),kyoto seni senmon gakko(kyoto textile vocational school)and the faculty of textile and science in kyoto kogei seni daigaku(kyoto institute of technology).
this campus had been used until july 1968,when it was integrated and relocated to matsugasaki,sakyo ward,kyoto city(where the campus of the faculty of engineering and design(its predecessor was kyoto technical vocational school)was placed).
today,the site of the kinugasa campus is used for hanazono housing estates.
