kyoto university
university
outline
whole of university
kyoto university is the second oldest national university in japan and its history began as the imperial university,which means the university established by the great empire of japan.
taking its scale,such as the budget and teaching staff,into account,kyoto university,as a whole,can be ranked the second in japan,but actually,it can be equal to tokyo university,no.1 university,in the quality of its very best students and teaching staff,who tackles the cutting-edge research.
this high quality is kept on the spiritual basis of "academic freedom",the motto of kyoto university,and this spirit can be seen in,besides the academic field,energetic activities,such as those of the student autonomy.
and kyoto university has also played the role of a cultural transmitter in kyoto,symbolized by the rock concert held in its west hall.
it has produced more nobel prize winners than any other universities in japan(until today,six have been produced).
spirit(or motto,philosophy,creed)of foundation
since it was set up,kyoto university has kept "academic freedom" as the spirit of its foundation.
and this spirit is echoed in the university's basic ideas&policies,which were codified after the university became the national university corporation.
education and research
in addition to its undergraduate and graduate schools,kyoto university has 13 research institutes and 17 research centers.
this number is the top of all universities in japan(as of march,2006).
among those,9 research institutes&centers serve as "joint research laboratories" & "joint research centers",which means its research facilities are also used by other universities and institutions.
this system of joint research laboratories was firstly adopted by yukawa institute for theoretical physics of kyoto university.
kyoto university people think that these facts symbolize the public character of kyoto university,that is,the role that it has played as the representative base in japan of the academic research over wide-ranging fields.
school tradition and feature
far from the downtown of kyoto city,kyoto university is in the calm surroundings that still retain some traces of the historic city,so students and teaching staff can concentrate on the studies in such calmness,and the university's motto "academic freedom",implying everything related to students' affairs should be left to their autonomy,can be seen in,for example,the annual november festival,the graffiti on the statue of prof.orita,and the students' disguise in the graduation ceremony.
however,as old constructions of kyoto university get remodeled and rebuilt,traces of the historic city fade out,and the school tradition of kyoto university is on the same path,some kyoto university people say.
there once existed a professor who came to work on foot because he had no money to get on the streetcar,and also,some professors who underwent the mobilization of students for labor during the world war 2,but most of them passed away,and even the atmosphere of the showa era,perceived in the generation of 1960s' student movement,is becoming a thing of the past.
before the war,kyoto university was typically symbolized by bankara(students' rough appearances)of sanko(third high school,the predecessor of kyoto university)or self-supporting students,but from the generation of the fierce "examination war",people from rich families have noticeably increased among its students and professors.
university's history
historical sketch
kyoto university originated from nagasaki yojyosho(later renamed nagasaki seitokukan),which was founded in nagasaki in a.d.1861(bunkyu 1).
the science and chemistry section of nagasaki seitokukan was to be transferred to kaiseijo(today's tokyo university)in edo by the name of "school of science and chemistry",but this wasn't realized in the turmoil of the meiji restoration.
in a.d.1868(keio 4),the meiji government decided to open "school of science and chemistry" in osaka in the name of "seimikyoku" (later,school of science),and did so in 1869.
in 1870,school of science was annexed to school of western learning,and was transformed into kaiseijo.
kaiseijo changed its name one after another,from osaka english school,osaka vocational school,osaka junior high school,and to university branch,and under the ordinance of junior high school,which was proclaimed in 1886,it was renamed third advanced junior high school.
third advanced junior high school was transferred to a new place purchased in yoshida-cho,kyoto city,in august 1st,1889.
under the ordinance of high school,proclaimed in 1894,third advanced junior high school was transformed into third high school(under the old system)(in this article, "third high school" indicates third high school under the old system,if there's no particular explanation).
after the ordinance of imperial university was established,there were many voices that an imperial university should be set up in the kinki district as in kanto,but they were shelved for a long time owing to financial difficulties.
in 1895,kinmochi saionji proposed that third high school should be graded up to the imperial university with the compensation earned from china after the sino-japanese war.
the plan adopted in the end was that third high school should be transferred to the south side of higashi-ichijyo dori(today's yoshida-south campus)and its premises left behind should be used by the university,and its budget passed the next year.
in june 18th,1897,kyoto imperial university started as the imperial ordinance about its foundation was enacted.
originally,the college of law was planned to be initially established in 1898,but the college of science and engineering was set up in 1897--one year earlier than expected and the same year as the foundation--because of the upsurge of its applicants.
and then,other colleges were established for about a decade from the foundation,such as the colleges of law and medicine in 1898,and the college of letters in 1906.
hiroji kinoshita assumed the first president,who was the chief of the special office of educational affairs in the ministry of education.
kojyuro nakagawa assumed the "secretary",the corresponding position of the bureau chief.
partly because the then president wanted it,kyoto imperial university learned from the german university system that put an emphasis on the freedom of research,teaching,and learning,
this principle,led by yoshito takane,is said to have affected the present "academic freedom",and,though changed when the college of law graduates got the bad grades in the examination of high civil servants,it surely marks the dawn of the unique school tradition that took root in kyoto imperial university.
in 1919,the system of colleges was transformed into that of faculties.
some faculties were set up one after another,such as the faculty of economics,divided from the faculty of law in the same year above,and the faculty of agriculture in 1923.
in the year that the faculty of agriculture was newly established,the central hall of the university was completed,which has the clock tower,now familiar as the university's symbol.
in 1926,the institute for chemical research,the first institute attached to the university,was completed.
entering the showa era,kyoto imperial university came to be struck frequently by events related to the professors' thoughts,which reflected the social conditions at that time when the control over thoughts was strengthened.
in 1928,the ministry of education urged prof.hajime kawakami,the authority of the marxian economics,to resign,and the university's faculty meeting also concluded he should quit,so professor kawakami was forced to leave.
moreover,in 1933,prof.yukitoki takigawa in the faculty of law,was laid off by ichiro hatoyama,the then minister of education,for the reason professor takigawa's theory about the criminal law included "marxist thought",so all teaching staff of the faculty submitted their resignation letters as the demonstration against the layoff,and kyoto university's president also declared his resignation when he met with the minister,but the ministry's splitting operation worked and seven of the staff,including mr.takigawa,were forced to leave in the end,and this whole event is what's called, "takigawa jiken(oppression of professor takigawa)".
as the war regime got strengthened,some programs complying with the national policy were set up,such as history of japanese spirit(in the faculty of letters),principles of east asian economics policies(in the faculty of economics),and aeronautics&fuel chemistry(in the faculty of engineering),and after the pacific war began, "loyal patriots' corps of kyoto imperial university" was formed for organizing students in the military style.
in 1943,the draft deferment was stopped for the humanities' students,and they went to the battlefront one after another.
in the farewell party of kyoto university,held before the departure of students for the battlefront,they are said to have done a visit to heian shrine with the university president at the front,and to have prayed for the war's victory.
after the end of the world war 2,yukitoki takigawa and others,who left the university owing to "takigawa jiken",came back to the university,while some professors were dismissed in the purge by ghq.
in 1947,just the 50th anniversary of the university's foundation,the word "imperial" was removed from the name,and the university was renamed "kyoto university",and in 1949,it annexed daisan kotogakko to itself.
in the same year,hideki yukawa,the professor in the faculty of science,became the first japanese nobel prize winner,so kyoto university established the yukawa memorial hall for its commemoration,and this hall was transformed into the yukawa institute for theoretical physics afterward.
in 1968,kyoto university's branch of the association of young doctors(ayd)called on an applicant for a boycott of the entrance examination of the graduate school of medicine,but the applicant rejected it,so a member of ayd beat the applicant,and this event,what's called "seiiren jiken" (ayd event),triggered the indefinite strike of the faculty of liberal arts,and the lockout of the student union.
kyoto university escaped the cancellation of the entrance exam,which really happened in tokyo university,but its graduation ceremony was forced to cancel for the first time after the war,and some buildings in the campus remained locked out until the next academic year's september,when they were all lifted.
in 1992,the faculty of integrated human studies was established,and the next year,the college of liberal arts and sciences was closed and kyoto university changed itself into the university prioritizing its graduate schools,and this was when the university's present faculties and graduate schools were all completed.
in 1997,kyoto university's centennial anniversary of foundation came around.
and in 2004,the national university's corporation law went into effect as one of the national organizations' reform,which was called for at that time,and kyoto university transformed itself into the national university corporation in line with the law.
from the history told above,this article sets kyoto university's origin year in 1869,when seimikyoku,third high school's predecessor,was founded,and university's foundation year in 1897,when kyoto imperial university was born.
chronological table
in may,1869,seimikyoku was founded.
in september,1869,school of western learning was founded.
in january,1870,seimikyoku was transformed into school of chemistry.
in may,1870,school of chemistry was transformed into school of science.
in october,1870,school of western learning annexed school of science,and was transformed into kaiseijo.
in august,1872,the ordinance of the school educational system was proclaimed,and kaiseijo was transformed into first junior high school of fourth university section.
in april,1873,the university section was changed,and first junior high school of fourth university section was renamed first junior high school of third university section.
in april,1873,first junior high school of third university section was transformed into kaimei school.
in april,1874,kaimei school was transformed into osaka foreign language school.
in december,1874,osaka foreign language school was transformed into osaka english school.
in april,1879,osaka english school was transformed into osaka vocational school.
in december,1880,osaka vocational school was transformed into osaka junior high school.
in july,1885,osaka junior high school was transformed into university branch.
in april,1886,the ordinance of advanced junior high school was proclaimed,and university branch was transformed into third advanced junior high school.
in september,1895,the ordinance of high school was proclaimed,and third advanced junior high school was transformed into third high school.
in june,1897,kyoto imperial university was established.
in september,1897,the college of science and engineering opened as one of its colleges within the premises of kyoto imperial university.
in september,1899,colleges of law and medicine opened.
in december,1899,the university library and the university hospital opened.
in april,1903,the college of medicine was divided into two,kyoto college of medicine,and fukuoka college of medicine.
in september,1906,the college of letters opened.
in november,1909,taiwan experimental forest station was given by taiwan government general.
in april,1911,fukuoka college of medicine was separated from kyoto university as kyusyu imperial university was established,and kyoto college of medicine was renamed the college of medicine,again.
in december,1912,korean experimental forest station was leased from korean government general.
in july,1914,the college of science and engineering was divided into two,the college of science,and the college of engineering.
in december,1915,kotangan forest of karafuto experimental forest station was given from karafuto agency.
in december,1916,aton forest of karafuto experimental forest station was given from karafuto agency.
in february,1919,each college was renamed faculty.
in may,1919,the faculty of economics opened.
in april,1921,ashiu experimental forest station was established in ashiu,chii village,kita kuwata-gun,kyoto prefecture.
in april,1923,the seventh college of provisional teachers was established.
in november,1923,the faculty of agriculture opened.
in may,1924,the university farm and the experimental forest,both attached to the faculty of agriculture,were established.
in october,1926,the institute for chemical research was established.
in march,1930,the seventh college of provisional teachers was closed.
in may,1933,the ministry of education laid off yukitoki takigawa,prof.of the faculty of law.
(takigawa jiken)
in may,1939,the provisional special division of medicine was established.
in august,1939,the institute for research of humanities was established.
in march,1941,the tuberculosis research institute was established.
in november,1941,the engineering research institute was established.
in april,1944,the provisional special division of medicine was reorganized into the special division of medicine.
in may,1944,the wood research institute was established.
in september,1946,the research institute for food science was established.
in october,1947,kyoto imperial university was renamed kyoto university.
in january,1949,the institute for research in humanities was integrated with the institute of eastern culture,which was under the control of the ministry of foreign affairs,and with the institute of western culture,which was a private organization.
in may,1949,kyoto university annexed third high school(dai san kou)and was reorganized under the new system.
the faculty of education,and the branch school of kyoto university(bunko),were established.
in april,1951,the disaster prevention research institute was established.
the school of nursing in the faculty of medicine was established.
in march,1952,the special division of medicine was closed.
in april,1953,the graduate schools under the new educational system were established(graduate school of letters,education,law,economics,science,pharmaceutical sciences,engineering,and agriculture).
in july,1953,the research institute for fundamental physics(yukawa institute for theoretical physics)was established.
in march,1954,the branch school of kyoto university was renamed the college of liberal arts and science.
in april,1954,the midwife school in the faculty of medicine was established.
in april,1955,the graduate school of medicine was established.
in april,1956,the institute for virus research was established.
in april,1959,the health technologist school of the faculty of medicine was established.
in april,1960,the faculty of pharmaceutical sciences was established.
in may,1961,the college of technology was established.
in april,1962,the institute of economic research was established.
in april,1963,the research institute for mathematical sciences,and research reactor institute were established.
in april,1965,the center for southeast asian studies was established.
in april,1966,the center for student health was established.
in june,1967,the primate research institute was established.
the tuberculosis research institute was renamed the tuberculosis chest disease research institute.
in june,1969,the data processing center was established.
the college of technology was closed.
in april,1971,the radioisotope research center was established.
the engineering research institute was renamed the institute of atomic energy.
in april,1972,the health technologist school of the faculty of medicine was renamed the school of clinical technologist of the faculty of medicine.
in may,1971,the research center for sports science was established.
in april,1975,the college of medical technology was established,and the midwife school and the school of nursing,both in the faculty of medicine,were closed.
in may,1976,the ultrahigh temperature plasma laboratory,attached to the faculty of engineering,was reorganized into the plasma physics laboratory.
the radiation biology center was established.
in april,1977,the environment preservation center was established.
in june,1977,kyoto university council dismissed nobuhiro takemoto,an assistant in the faculty of economics.(called the event of takemoto's dismissal,or crushing of takemoto's dismissal)
in july,1977,the center for archaeological operations was established.
in march 1978,the school of clinical technologist of the faculty of medicine was closed.
in april,1978,the educational center for information processing was established.
in april,1980,the research center for medical polymers and biomaterials was established.
in april,1981,the ionosphere research laboratory was reorganized into the radio atmospheric science center.
in april,1986,the center for african area studies was established.
in april,1988,the tuberculosis chest disease research institute was renamed the chest disease research institute.
the center for genetics was established.
in december,1988,the international exchange center was established.
in june,1990,the research center for biomedical engineering,and the center for student exchange were established.
the research center for medical polymers and biomaterials,and the international exchange center were closed.
in april,1991,the graduate school of human and environmental studies,and the center for ecological research were established.
the wood research institute was renamed the ligneous science research institute.
in october,1992,the faculty of integrated human studies was established.
in march,1993,the college of liberal arts and sciences was closed.
in june,1994,the research center for higher education was established.
in april,1996,the graduate school of energy science,and the intramural institution of african area studies were established.
the institute of atomic energy,and the plasma physics laboratory were integrated into the institute of advanced energy.
the center for african area studies was closed.
in april,1997,the kyoto university museum was established.
the educational center for information processing,and the integrated media environment experimental laboratory,which was attached to the faculty of engineering,were integrated into the center for information and multimedia studies.
in april,1998,the graduate school of asian and african area studies,and the graduate school of informatics were established.
the chest disease research institute,and the research center for biomedical engineering were integrated into the institute for frontier medical sciences.
in april,1999,the graduate school of biostudies was established.
in april,2000,the radio atmospheric science center was reorganized into the radio science center for space and atmosphere.
in november,2000,the university archives was established.
in april,2001,the research institute for food science was annexed to the graduate school of agriculture.
the international innovation center was established.
in april,2002,the graduate school of global environmental studies(the hall of global environmental research,and the hall of global environmental education),the research center for low temperature and materials science,the fukui institute for fundamental chemistry were established.
the center for data processing,the center for information and multimedia studies,and the institute for academic information network were integrated into the academic center for computing and media studies.
in april,2003,seto marine biological laboratory(attached to the graduate school of science),the university forest,the subtropical plant institute,and the fisheries research station(these three were attached to the faculty of agriculture)were integrated into the field science education and research center.
the research center for higher education,a part of the academic center for computing and media studies,and a part of the faculty of integrated human studies were unified into the center for the promotion of excellence in higher education.
the institute for the promotion of excellence in higher education was established.
the research center for sports science was closed.
in april,2004,the ligneous science research institute,and the radio science center for space and atmosphere were integrated into the research institute for sustainable humanosphere.
the center for southeast asian studies was upgraded to the attached institute.
the center for genetics was closed.
kyoto university became the national university corporation under the national university corporation law.
in april,2005,the center for student exchange was reorganized into the international center.
the environment,safety,and health organization,the international innovation center,the organization for the promotion of international relations,the institute for information management and communication,and the library network were established.
in november,2005,the university's administrative bureau was divided into the administrative council,and the education and research council.
in april,2006,the education of pharmaceutical sciences was transformed into the six-year system,so the pharmaceutical sciences department of the faculty of pharmaceutical sciences was reorganized into the six-year system(department of general pharmacology was closed)and the department of pharmacy(four-year system)was established.
the graduate school of government(collaborative research&education division),the graduate school of management(research&education division)were established.
the center for integrated area studies was established,and the center succeeded the business of the national ethnology museum.
the office organization of the administrative bureau was remodeled.
the institute of sustainability science was established.
in july,2006,the pioneering research unit for next generation was established.
in september,2006,the center for women researchers was established.
in march,2007,the college of medical technology was closed.
in april,2007,the kokoro research center,the advanced medical engineering research unit,the career-path promotion unit for young life scientist were established.
basic data
location
yoshida campus(mainly within yoshida-honmachi,sakyo-ku,kyoto city,kyoto prefecture)
uji campus(gokasho,uji city,kyoto prefecture)
katsura campus(kyoto daigaku katsura,nishikyo-ku,kyoto city)
university symbol
university song
words by yakyu mizunashi,music by kan'ichi shimofusa.
this song was established in 1940,as an answer to the "imperial rescript for the young students" from the emperor in 1939.
the lyrics of the song were selected from pieces written by the university students in 1939,and the piece of mr.mizunashi,a graduate of kyoto imperial university,was chosen the best one.
it's sung in the graduation,entrance and other ceremonies.
furthermore,takashi asahina,a graduate of kyoto university,chose this school song as his first album's music(teichiku entertainment inc.released.
kyoto university symphony orchestra performed).
you can see the lyrics on the kyoto university's official website.
when the centennial anniversary of foundation came around in 1997,the establishment of a new school song was planned,and its lyrics were sought,but the majority said the conventional one was better,so the plan was stopped.
there exist some other songs listed below related to kyoto university.
students' song
words by taro nagasaki,music by toru akutagawa
established in 1953
words chosen from the public
fight song: "shinsei no ibuki(sign of rebirth) "
words by hiro'o nakagawa,music by takehiko tada
established in 1958
words chosen from the public
fight song: "hana no ka kaorinu(scent of flowers) "
words by kimio kubota,music by takashi hashimoto
established in 1959
fight song: "dark blue-umi no ao"
words by yutaka shiraishi,music by kunio motoyama
established in 1961
words chosen from the public
fight song: "hitotsu no tamasii(one spirit)"
words by yutaka sakai,music by kyoto university brass band
established in 1981
words chosen from the public
shoyo no uta(song of wandering kyoto):kurenai moyuru(vivid red of flowers)
words by koi sawamura,music by k.y.(initial),whose real name is unknown
originally,this had been a class song,sung in a certain class of third high school(daisan kotogakkou),and it came to be sung in the whole school and finally became the symbolic song of third high school and kyoto university.
in 1946,it was used in the akira kurosawa's movie, "waga seishun ni kuinashi(no regrets for my youth)",so it came to be known nationwide by the general public.
but the original words are partly different from the present ones.
lake biwa rowing song
the words were made by taro koguchi,a member of third high school aquatics club(today's boat club of kyoto university),while he was on the way of the lake biwa cruise in 1917.
the music diverts one from "hitsujigusa(by chiaki yoshida),which was popular with the club members at that time.
third high school's dormitory students and others liked to sing it.
university flag
the university flag was established in 1940 for the same purpose as the university song.
you can see its design on kyoto university's official website.
school color
kyoto university's school color is dark blue.
emblem
kyoto university's emblem is the design of a camphor tree,standing in front of the clock tower in yoshida campus.
this design had been used since around 1950s as the "seal of the administrative bureau" on printed materials and others,and in 1990,it was officially adopted as the university's emblem.
the situation of newly-enrolled students
out of 2,901 students newly-enrolled for faculties in 2008,those from high schools in the kinki district are the most at 57.5%(osaka prefecture 18.8%,hyogo prefecture 12.3%,and kyoto prefecture 10.4%),followed by the chubu district at 14.5%,kanto district at 8.7%,kyusyu&okinawa district at 6.7%,chugoku district at 6.5%,shikoku district at 3.3%,tohoku district at 1.4%,and hokkaido at 1.1%.(ï¼>please refer to the situation of newly enrolled students of the former imperial universities)
for other former imperial universities,students come the most from the prefecture the university is located in,but,for kyoto university only,those from high schools in kyoto prefecture rank the third peculiarly.
education and research
organizations
faculties
faculty of integrated human studies
department of integrated human studies
division of human sciences
division of multi-disciplinary studies of civilizations
division of cultural environment studies
division of cognitive and information sciences
division of natural sciences
faculty of letters
department of humanities
division of philosophy
department of philosophy
department of the history of western philosophy
ancient philosophy
medieval philosophy
modern philosophy
department of the history of japanese philosophy
department of ethics
department of religious studies
department of christian studies
department of aesthetics and art history
division of eastern culture
department of japanese language and literature
department of chinese language and literature
department of the history of chinese philosophy
department of indological studies
department of buddhist studies
division of western culture
department of greek and latin classics
department of slavic languages and literatures
department of german language and literature
department of english language and literature
department of american literature
department of french language and literature
department of italian language and literature
division of history
department of japanese history
department of oriental history
department of southwest asian history
department of european history
department of archaeology
division of behavioral studies
department of psychology
department of linguistics
department of sociology
department of geography
division of contemporary culture
department of philosophy and history of science
department of humanistic informatics
department of twentieth century studies
department of contemporary history
faculty of education
department of educational science
division of modern education basics
division of educational psychology
division of interrelated educational system
faculty of law
there is no organization of department.
division of basic law
division of public law
division of civil and criminal law
division of political science
faculty of economics
department of economics
department of management
faculty of science
department of science
division of mathematics
division of physics and astrophysics
division of earth and planetary sciences
division of chemistry
division of biological science
faculty of medicine
department of medicine(six-year system)
department of health science
division of nursing studies
division of laboratory science
division of physical therapy
division of occupational therapy
faculty of pharmaceutical sciences
department of general pharmacology(four-year system,for students newly-enrolled in heisei 17 academic year and before)
department of pharmaceutical sciences(four-year system,for those newly enrolled in heisei 18 academic year and after)
department of pharmacy(four-year system,for those newly enrolled in heisei 18 academic year and after)
faculty of engineering
department of global engineering
department of architecture
department of engineering science
department of electrical and electronic engineering
department of informatics and mathematical science
department of industrial chemistry
faculty of agriculture
department of bioresource science
department of applied life science
department of agricultural and environmental engineering
department of food and environmental economics
department of forest and biomaterials science
department of food science and biotechnology
graduate schools
graduate school of letters
division of philology and literature
division of philosophy
division of history
division of behavioral studies
division of contemporary culture
graduate school of education
division of educational science
division of clinical pedagogy
graduate school of law
division of law and policy studies
division for judicial professionals(professional degree programs,law school)
graduate school of economics
division of economic system analysis
division of economic dynamics analysis
division of contemporary economics and business analysis(in 2006 academic year,division of contemporary economics and division of business science were integrated.)
graduate school of science
division of mathematics and mathematical analysis
division of physics and astronomy
division of earth and planetary sciences
division of chemistry
division of biological science
graduate school of medicine
division of medicine(doctoral course of four-year system)
division of medical science(master's course and latter doctoral course)
division of public health(professional degree programs,latter doctoral course)
division of human health science
graduate school of pharmaceutical sciences
division of physical and organic chemistry
division of life sciences
division of pharmacy and biomedicinal sciences
division of bioinformatics and chemical genomics
graduate school of engineering
department of civil and earth resources engineering
department of urban management
department of urban and environmental engineering
department of architecture and architectural engineering
department of mechanical engineering and science
department of micro engineering
department of aeronautics and astronautics
department of nuclear engineering
department of materials science and engineering
department of electrical engineering
department of electronic science and engineering
department of material chemistry
department of physical engineering
department of energy and hydrocarbon chemistry
department of molecular engineering
department of polymer chemistry
department of synthetic and biological chemistry
department of chemical engineering
graduate school of agriculture
division of agronomy and horticultural science
division of forest and biomaterials science
division of applied life science
division of applied biosciences
division of environmental science and technology
division of natural resource economics
division of food science and biotechnology
graduate school of human and environmental studies
department of human coexistence
department of cultural coexistence
department of interdisciplinary environment
graduate school of energy science
department of socio-environmental energy science
department of fundamental energy science
department of energy conversion science
department of energy science and technology
graduate school of asian and african area studies(five-year system,doctoral course)
division of southeast asian area studies
division of african area studies
graduate school of informatics
department of intelligence science and technology
department of social informatics
department of applied analysis and complex dynamical systems
department of applied mathematics and physics
department of systems science
department of communications and computer engineering
graduate school of biostudies
division of integrated life science
division of systemic life science
graduate school of global and environmental studies(hall of global environmental research)
department of global ecology
department of technology and ecology
department of natural resources
graduate school of global and environmental studies(school of global environmental studies)
department of global environmental studies(doctoral course)
department of environmental management(master's course,doctoral course)
collaborative research&education division of school of government
department of government(professional degree programs,school of government)
graduate school of management research&education division
department of management(professional degree programs,graduate school of management)
college
college of medical technology(closed in march,2007)
attached facilities and institutions
university library
organizations
institute for the promotion of excellence in higher education
environment,safety,and health organization
international innovation organization
the organization for the promotion of international relations
institute for information management and communication
library network
facilities attached to faculties
facility attached to the faculty of medicine
hospital(kyoto university hospital)
facilities attached to graduate schools
facility attached to the graduate school of letters
center for eurasian cultural studies(kita-ku,kyoto city)
facility attached to the graduate school of education
praxis and research center for clinical psychology and education
facilities attached to the graduate school of law
international legal and political documentation center
center for law and policy studies
facilities attached to the graduate school of economics
project center
shanghai center
facilities attached to the graduate school of science
astronomical observatories
kwasan astronomical observatory(yamashina-ku,kyoto city)
hida astronomical observatory(takayama city,gifu prefecture)
world data center for geomagnetism
geothermal research laboratory(beppu city,oita prefecture)
volcanological laboratory(minami aso-village,kumamoto prefecture)
facilities attached to the graduate school of medicine
institute of laboratory animals
congenital anomaly research center
center for anatomical studies
human brain research center
center for genomic medicine
center for medical education
facilities attached to the graduate school of pharmaceutical sciences
the experimental station for medicinal plants
center for integrative education of pharmacy frontier
facilities attached to the graduate school of engineering
ion beam engineering experimental laboratory
research center for environmental quality management(otsu city,shiga prefecture)
quantum science and engineering center
katsura int'tech center
center for information technology
occupational health,safety and environmental management center
facilities attached to the graduate school of agriculture
experimental farms
head farmstead(takatsuki city,osaka prefecture)
kyoto farmstead(north campus)
livestock farm(kyotanba-cho,kyoto prefecture)
attached institutes
institute for chemical research
research division of synthetic chemistry
research division of materials chemistry
research division of biochemistry
research division of environmental chemistry
research division of multidisciplinary chemistry
advanced research center for beam science,attached to the institute
international research center for elements science,attached to the institute
bioinformatics center,attached to the institute
institute for research in humanities
research division of cultural research methodologies
research division of cultural processes
research division of cultural representation
research division of cultural composition
research division of cultural interrelationship
documentation and information center for chinese studies,attached to the institute for research in humanities of kyoto university
institute for frontier medical sciences,kyoto university
research field of biological function
research field of tissue engineering
research field of regeneration control
research field of clinical application
laboratory of animal experiments for regeneration,attached to the institute
stem cell research center,attached to the institute
research center for nano medical engineering
institute of advanced energy
advanced energy generation division
advanced energy conversion division
advanced energy utilization division
laboratory for complex energy processes,attached to the institute
research institute for sustainable humanosphere
research division of diagnostics and control of humanosphere
research division of creative research and development of humanosphere
department of collaborative research programs
shigaraki mu observatory(shigaraki-cho,shiga prefecture)
equatorial atmosphere radar(sumatra,indonesia)
center for exploratory research on humanosphere,attached to the institute
disaster prevention research institute
research division of disaster management for safe and secure society
research division of earthquake disaster prevention
research division of earthquake hazards
research division of geohazards
research division of atmospheric and hydrospheric disasters
research center for disaster reduction systems,attached to the institute
research center for earthquake prediction,attached to the institute
kamitakara observatory(takayama city,gifu prefecture)
hokuriku observatory(sabae city,fukui prefecture)
osakayama observatory(otsu city,shiga prefecture)
donzurubo observatory(kashiba city,nara prefecture)
abuyama observatory(takatsuki city,osaka prefecture)
tottori observatory(tottori city,tottori prefecture)
tokushima observatory(ishii-cho,tokushima prefecture)
miyazaki observatory(miyazaki city,miyazaki prefecture)
sakurajima volcano research center,attached to the institute(sakurajima,kagoshima city,kagoshima prefecture)
research center on landslides,attached to the institute
tokushima landslide observatory(miyoshi city,tokushima prefecture)
research center for fluvial and coastal disasters,attached to the institute
ujigawa open laboratory(fushimi-ku,kyoto prefecture)
ogata wave observatory(joetsu city,niigata prefecture)
hodaka sedimentation observatory(takayama city,gifu prefecture)
shirahama oceanographic observatory(shirahama-cho,wakayama prefecture)
shionomisaki wind effect laboratory(kushimoto-cho,wakayama prefecture)
water resources research center,attached to the institute
yukawa institute for theoretical physics
research division of fundamental physics
research division of materials structure
research division of physics under extreme conditions
institute for virus research
research department of viral oncology
research department of genetics and molecular biology
research department of biological responses
research department of cell biology
research center for acquired immunodeficiency syndrome,attached to the institute
experimental research center for infectious diseases,attached to the institute
center for emerging virus research,attached to the institute
institute of economic research
research division of economic information analysis
research division of economic institution
research division of public policy
research center for financial engineering,attached to the institute
research center for economics of complex systems,attached to the institute
research center for advanced policy studies,attached to the institute
research institute for mathematical sciences
research department of basic mathematical science
research department of infinite analysis
research department of applied mathematical science
computer laboratory,attached to the institute
research reactor institute(kumatori-cho,osaka prefecture)
research department of nuclear science and engineering
research department of material science
research department of radiation life science and radiation medical science
research center for safe nuclear system,attached to the institute
particle radiation oncology research center,attached to the institute
primate research institute
research department of evolution and phylogeny
research department of ecology and social behavior
research department of behavioral and brain sciences
research department of cellular and molecular biology
field research centers of japanese monkeys,attached to the institute
koshima field station(kushima city,miyazaki prefecture)
yakushima field station(yakushima-cho,kagoshima prefecture)
center for human evolution modeling research,attached to the institute
center for southeast asian studies
research division of integrated area studies
research division of human-nature dynamics
research division of socio-cultural dynamics
research division of economic&political dynamics
division of area informatics
area studies planning and promotion office
foreign liaison offices(bangkok,jakarta)
educational research centers
academic center for computing and media studies
department of networking research
department of computing research
department of educational support research
department of digital content research
collaborative research laboratories
radiation biology center
center for ecological research(otsu city,shiga prefecture)
center for integrated area studies
radioisotope research center
environment preservation center
the international center
center for the promotion of excellence in higher education
research division for studies in higher education
research division for core curriculum design
research division for information and media study design
the kyoto university museum
international innovation center
division of international integration
division of international innovation
research center for low temperature and materials sciences
field science education and research center
division of planning and promotion
division of forest biosphere
division of human ecosystem
division of basic marine biology
ashiu forest research station(nantan city,kyoto prefecture)
hokkaido forest research station shibecha branch(shibecha-cho,hokkaido prefecture),shiranuka branch(shiranuka-cho,hokkaido prefecture)
wakayama forest research station(aridagawa-cho,wakayama prefecture)
kamigamo experimental station(kita-ku,kyoto city)
tokuyama experimental station(shunan city,yamaguchi prefecture)
kitashirakawa experimental station(sakyo-ku,kyoto city)
kii-oshima research station(kushimoto-cho,wakayama prefecture)
maizuru fisheries research station(maizuru city,kyoto prefecture)
seto marine biological laboratory(shirahama-cho,wakayama prefecture)
kyoto university shirahama aquarium
fukui institute for fundamental chemistry
theoretical research division
general research division
kokoro research center
kyoto university health service
counseling center
kyoto university archives
nano-medicine merger education unit
institute of sustainability science
pioneering research unit for next generation
education unit for global leaders in advanced engineering and pharmaceutical science
career-path promotion unit for young life scientists
center for women researchers
center for archaeological operations
center for african area studies
venture business laboratory
research
coe programs for 21st century
23 programs adopted
in 2002
life science
coe formation in frontier life sciences by unifying interactions
formation of a strategic base for the multidisciplinary study of biodiversity
chemistry and materials science
kyoto university alliance for chemistry(the fundamentals and developments of new chemistry for material conversion)
coe for a united approach to new materials science
information science,electrical and electronic science
informatics research center for development of knowledge society infrastructure
coe for research and education of fundamental technologies in electrical and electronic engineering
humanities
towards a center of excellence for the study of humanities in the age of globalization
center of excellence for psychological studies
interdisciplinary,combined field,new disciplines
aiming for coe of integrated area studies(promotion of educational and research system utilizing the field stations)
establishment of coe on sustainable energy system
natural disaster science and disaster reduction initiatives
in 2003
medical science
coe formation for genomic analysis of disease model animals with multiple genetic alterations
establishment of international coe for integration of transplantation therapy and regenerative medicine
mathematics,physics,earth sciences
formation of an international center of excellence in the frontiers of mathematics and fostering of researchers in future generations
center for diversity and universality in physics
elucidation of the active geosphere
mechanical,civil,architectural,and other fields of engineering
research and education on complex functional mechanical systems
social sciences
program for the reconstruction of legal ordering in the 21st century
coe for interfaces for advanced economic analysis
interdisciplinary,combined fields,new disciplines
center of research and knowledge information infrastructure for genomic science
coe for microbial-process development pioneering future production systems
east asian center for informatics in humanities
in 2004
the cutting edge of new scientific fields
innovative food and environmental studies pioneered by entomomimetic sciences
education
liberal arts
the education of kyoto university at the faculty stage can be roughly classified into two,liberal arts that are commonly lectured in all faculties,and major subjects at each faculty.
out of the two,the liberal arts were rearranged so as to center the common subjects in the curriculum,after the college of liberal arts and sciences was closed in 1993.
the way that assigns liberal arts and major subjects is not a mechanical one by the grade that assigns the liberal arts to freshmen and sophomores,and the major subjects to juniors and above,but a gradual one that requires students to take relatively many of the liberal arts in the first grade,and increases major subjects as the grade goes up so that students can take both of their credits until graduation.
however,in some faculties,students can never register the course nor enter the institute when they fail to take credits of certain liberal arts along the way(de facto enforcement of repeating the same grade).
liberal arts are mostly lectured in all faculties and are classified into five groups below.
group a:humanities and social sciences
group b:natural sciences
group c:foreign languages
including the japanese education for students from abroad
group d:health and physical education
group ex:credit exchangeable subjects in the consortium of universities in kyoto
note that some subjects belong to plural groups at the same time,such as group a and c,or group b and d,so students should choose in which group they learn those subjects when they register.
each faculty sets certain number of credits to be taken in each group.
some faculties don't accept certain subjects as credits that should be met for graduation.
for example,in group b,there is a course of mathematics for students majoring in humanities,but this course is unacceptable as credits for students majoring in science.
particularly,the faculty of engineering specifies the group b subjects as credits and doesn't accept other subjects at all.
in addition,among students of the faculty of integrated human studies,the very idea of group is not applied,except for group c.
and among those students who entered the faculty of letters in heisei 16 academic year and before,group a,b,and d were not distinguished.
besides,there are subjects mentioned below that are given credits of the groups,from a to d,according to their contents.
orientation seminar for freshmen(called "pocket semi")
this seminar started in 1998 academic year.
it aims to expand students' horizons by having them contact with different majors' teaching staff.
kyoto university international education program(kuinep)
lectures are given in english to japanese and foreign students alike,both of whom are almost the same in number.
the administration of liberal arts had been in the charge of the faculty of integrated human studies on and after the closure of the college of liberal arts and sciences,but since 2003,it has been in the charge of the newly established "institute for the promotion of excellence in higher education".
courses' registration and transmission of information,such as lecture cancellations,papers,and examinations,are all done on the website,so they use kyoto university's liberal arts syllabus information system(briefly called kulasis).
support programs adopted by the ministry of education,culture,sports,science and technology
support program for good practice as unique university education
restructuring the english education-call,the autonomous study system,and nurture of international human resources
education reform by institutionalizing faculty development in the style of mutual study
support program for good practice as tackling contemporary educational needs
internationally cooperative education of global and environmental sciences-making and practicing simultaneously-proceeded programs in cooperation with other asian universities
wide implementation of new education about immediate cardiac life support
promotion program for internationalizing university education
kyoto university's program for long-term studying abroad
support program for constructing law school and other professional schools
program for upgrading practical theoretical education
investigation and research about ideal basic education of practical affairs
program for nurturing clinical researchers
support program for educating medical staff in response to the social needs including regional medicine
this program took the lead in nurturing cutting-edge medical care and creating new drugs.
initiatives for attractive education in graduate schools
pedagogy programs for researchers with the integrated theory and practice
programs for multidisciplinary energy scientists
information system design in cooperation with the society
chemistry education trinity
formation of career-path for multidisciplinary and systematic medical research
programs for practical local researchers by clinical education and research
programs for high-level personnel supporting simulation science
biostudies career development
cooperative plans for high-level personnel dispatch
internship for global environmental studies
campus life
club activities
some clubs are well-known,such as kyoto university's symphony orchestra,which was founded in 1916 and is famous among connoisseurs for its former member takashi asahina,and kyoto university newspaper company,which issues "kyoto university newspaper",the campus daily newspaper.
and in kyoto university,there still remain some traces of the student movement era,and recently,incidents such as "ishigaki cafÃ©" happened.
university festival
kyoto university november festival
the festival is held annually in later november for four days at yoshida-south campus and main campus,both in yoshida campus.
it's briefly called november festival or nf.
sports
kyoto university sports union promotes the extracurricular sports and 51 clubs belong to it.
the american football team is known as the nickname of "kyoto university gangsters",and has achieved 6 university championships and 4 japanese championships.
especially,in 1986 and 1987,it consecutively won both of koshien bowl(the play-off for university championship between the kanto league winner and the kansai one)and rice bowl(japanese championship).
it belongs to division 1 of kansai collegiate american football association.
the baseball team of kyoto university belongs to kansai students baseball league and has got two championships in time of kansai big 6 baseball league(former league).
the logo of the baseball cap, "db" stands for "dark blue" after the school color.
people and organizations related to kyoto university
organizations of people related to kyoto university
alumni association
kyoto university's alumni association was founded in november,2006,as an university-wide alumni association.
before that time,there have been,as listed below,the alumni association in each faculty,graduate school,or department.
the kyoto university alumni association of the graduate school of human and environmental studies,the faculty of integrated human studies
yushinkai(faculty of law)
shirankai(faculty of medicine)-it has shiran kaikan,the building for the alumni members.
ibunkai(faculty of letters)
the alumni association of the department of economics
kyoenekai(graduate school of energy science)
kyoyukai(faculty of education)
kyodai architectural school's alumni association(department of architecture of the faculty of engineering,and the like)
kyokikai(the alumni association for departments of the mechanical engineering and the like,of kyoto university)
kyoto university's alumni association of geophysics(geophysics department of graduate school of science)
shimeikai(faculty of agriculture,graduate school of agriculture)
kyodokai(civil engineering of the faculty of engineering,and the like)
suiyokai of kyoto university(department of earth resources engineering,department of materials engineering,both the faculty of engineering,and the like)
kyodai yakuyukai(faculty&,graduate school of pharmaceutical sciences)
rakuyukai(the electrical&electronic science engineering departments of graduate school of engineering,and the like)
kokakai(department of industrial chemistry of the faculty of engineering,chemical engineering of the graduate school of engineering,and the like)
there also exist some local alumni associations.
kyoto university press
kyoto university press is a middle-natured corporation with the limited liability,aiming to publish and spread the academic fruits in kyoto university mainly by publication activities.
the employees consists of kyoto university's teaching staff,graduates,and emeritus professors,recommended by the university,its graduate schools,research institutes,or others,and the office is in the kyoto university hall.
it has published academic and educational books,including the series of "western classic studies", "ecological studies",and "area studies",as well as two academic magazines, "arche" :annual review of the kansai philosophical association" and "twentieth century studies".
gakushikai
gakushikai consists of the graduates of kyoto imperial university,professors,assistant professors,and presidents(including former ones)and of course,kyoto university's graduates can sign up for it.
for details,please refer to gakushikai's website.
list of people related to kyoto university
list of public figures related to kyoto university
facilities
university campuses
yoshida campus
this campus is sometimes called "yoshida areas".
it's divided by the road into seven areas,called "konai(campus)".
the name of each konai has begun to be used since 2000s,and so,teachers and students use the former popular names occasionally.
honbu konai
faculties using honbu konai:faculties of letters,education,law,economics,and engineering
graduate schools using honbu konai:graduate schools of letters,education,law,economics,engineering(division of physics),energy science,informatics,(a part of)asian and african area studies,biostudies(the office department,and some laboratories),hall of global environmental research,school of global environmental studies,government,graduate school of management
attached facilities using honbu konai:university library,institute of economics,the kyoto university museum,academic center for computing and media studies(north building),center for integrated area studies,center for archaeological operations,kokoro research center,and so on
access:on foot,it takes 10 minutes from demachiyanagi station of keihan oto line,or by kyoto city bus,you should get off at "kyodai seimon-mae" or "hyakumanben".
many lines of kyoto city bus bring you to these two stops from other stops in kyoto city,such as kyoto station,kawaramachi station(in kyoto prefecture),and imadegawa station.
it's also called "main campus".
this campus has been used since kyoto university's foundation.
before the university's foundation,there had been a suburban residence in kyoto belonging to owari-han clan.
the stone walls at that time still exist,facing higashi-oji,and the incident of ishigaki cafÃ© happened here.
enter the main gate,and you will see just at the front the clock tower centennial hall and the camphor tree,both known as the symbol of kyoto university.
the university's two administrative organizations,administrative council,and education and research council,exist in this campus.
institute for research in humanities plans to move to the building no.5 of the faculty of engineering(formerly used by the department of global engineering,and the like)
hokubu konai
faculties using hokubu konai:faculties of science,and agriculture
graduate schools using hokubu konai:graduate schools of science,agriculture,and(a part of)biostudies
attached facilities using hokubu konai:institute for research of humanities,research institute for fundamental physics,research institute of mathematical sciences,research center for low temperature and materials sciences,the attached farm and botanical garden,and so on
access:on foot,it takes 15 minutes from demachiyanagi station of keihan oto line,or by kyoto city bus,you should get off at "kyodai nogakubumae" or "hyakumanben".
many lines of kyoto city bus bring you to these two stops from other stops in kyoto city,such as kyoto station,kawaramachi station,and imadegawa station.
it's also called "north campus".
science facilities mostly occupy this campus,and there are many graduate students here,so some people acquainted with kyoto university say, "the atmosphere of this campus is calm,compared to that of honbu konai or yoshida-minami konai."
in the faculty of agriculture's ground(commonly known as "no g"),located at the northeast corner,sports' club activities,such as those of the american football,are done.
ginkgo trees standing in line from the main gate of the faculty of science are well known to local residents.
yoshida-minami konai(yoshida-south campus)
faculty using yoshida-minami campus:faculty of integrated human studies
graduate school using yoshida-minami konai:graduate school of human and environmental studies
attached facilities using yoshida-minami konai:academic center for computing and media studies(south building),center for the promotion of excellence in higher education,and so on
access:on foot,it takes 15 minutes both from demachiyanagi station of keihan oto line and from marutamachi station of keihan line,or by kyoto city bus,you should get off at "kyodai shomon-mae" or "konoedori".
many lines of kyoto city bus bring you to these two stops from other stops in kyoto city,such as kyoto station,kawaramachi station,and imadegawa station.
this campus is sometimes called by its former name "sojin campus".
or more simply, "yoshida campus".
the common subjects are mostly lectured here,so freshmen of all faculties spend most of their time in this campus.
this might explain why bills and standing signboards,recruiting students to join the club or sending political messages,are noticeable here.
yoshida south campus academic center building(formerly,faculty of integrated human study's a building)stands at the place where the professor orita's statue once had existed in front,but the reconstruction of the building totally changed the atmosphere around here.
in its courtyard,there are two pine trees("nihonmatsu" in japanese),which are the origin of the place's name here.
the sports clubs do their activities in the ground or in the tennis court of this campus.
kyoto university's yoshida-ryo(dormitory)exists within the same premises.
in 2004,lawson opened its convenience store,the first one as the private company in the national university,at the basement of the yoshida south campus academic center building.
seibu konai(west campus)
faculty using seibu konai:none
graduate school using seibu konai:none
attached facilities using seibu konai:sports gymnasium,west hall,and others.
access:on foot,it takes 10 minutes from demachiyanagi station of keihan oto line,or by kyoto city bus,you should get off at "kyodai seimon-mae" or "hyakumanben".
many lines of kyoto city bus bring you to these two stops from other stops in kyoto city,such as kyoto station,kawaramachi station,and imadegawa station.
there is no lecture room or laboratory,so this campus is used merely for sports classes or extracurricular activities.
there stands a building for clubs in front of west hall.
this building gets so old that its reconstruction is planned,but it's not materialized owing to the dispute between students and the university authorities over how to control the new building.
the ceremony of entrance,graduation,degree conferment,and others,are held at sports gymnasium.
igakubu konai(faculty of medicine campus)
faculty using igakubu konai:faculty of medicine(department of medicine)
graduate schools using igakubu konai:graduate school of medicine,and(a part of)graduate school of biostudies
attached facilities using igakubu konai:radiation biology center,radioisotope research center,and center for women researchers
access:on foot,it takes 10 minutes from marutamachi station of keihan oto line,15 minutes from demachiyanagi station of the same line,or by kyoto city bus,you should get off at "konoedori" or "kyodai seimon-mae".
many lines of kyoto city bus bring you to these two stops from other stops in kyoto city,such as kyoto station,kawaramachi station,and imadegawa station.
it's also called "nanbu konai(south campus)".
the whole area is occupied with facilities related to medicine.
yakugakubu konai(faculty of pharmaceutical sciences campus)
faculties using yakugakubu konai:faculties of pharmaceutical sciences,and medicine(department of health science)
graduate schools using yakugakubu konai:graduate schools of pharmaceutical sciences,and asian and african area studies
attached facilities using yakugakubu konai:institute for frontier medical sciences,center for southeast asian studies,institute for virus research,and university hospital(byoin nishi konai)
access:on foot,it takes 5 minutes from marutamachi station of keihan oto line,or by kyoto city bus,you should get off at "kawabata marutamachi", "koujinbashi",or "konoedori".
many lines of kyoto city bus bring you to these three stops from other stops in kyoto city,such as kyoto station,kawaramachi station,and imadegawa station.
in yoshida campus,this is the last area that was enlarged for the university.
so it's used by relatively new institutes and other organizations.
some sports and music clubs do their activities here.
byoin konai(university hospital campus)
faculty using byoin konai:none
graduate school using byoin konai:none
attached facility using byoin konai:university hospital(byoin higashi konai)
access:on foot,it takes 10 minutes from marutamachi station of keihan oto line,or by kyoto city bus,you should get off at "kumano jinjya-mae" or "konoedori".
many lines of kyoto city bus bring you to these two stops from other stops in kyoto city,such as kyoto station,kawaramachi station,and imadegawa station.
in general,there is no student here.
the university of the air sets its parabolic antenna at the higashioji street side of this campus.
trouble of congestion
in yoshida campus,especially in main and yoshida-south campus,many buildings stand side by side in small premises,so the path between the buildings is narrow and there is little space for parking.
that's why it's strictly restricted to drive a car into the campus and park it.
the running of a motorcycle within the campus is also regulated.
and so,many students go to school by bicycle,but again,they are annoyed with a chronic lack of the bicycle parking lot,and some of them put their bicycles outside of the lot,which become traffic obstacles in some cases.
and there is no end to minor collisions between a bicycle and a pedestrian.
disaster prevention
just outside of the east edge of the campus,hanaori fault runs along.
when this fault triggers the earthquake,its damage will be tremendous,so rapid seismic strengthening works of the buildings are under way.
relics
in yoshida campus,many relics of the past from the jomon to edo period have been found.
relics listed below are the major ones.
kitashirakawa-oiwakecho relics(jomon period):in north campus
relics of rice fields in the yayoi period:in yoshida-south campus and others
the hole used for casting buddhist temple bells(heian period):in yoshida-south campus
the mound for cremation(heian period):in north campus
relics of shirakawado street(from medieval to early modern ages):in main campus and others
the relics of the residence of tosa-han clan(the last days of the tokugawa shogunate):in north campus
cultural properties
in the campus,there still remain a lot of buildings established in the period from meiji to early showa,which are precious heritages that teach us the character of architecture in each period.
buildings listed below are registered national tangible cultural properties.
the front gate of main campus(formerly,the front gate of third advanced junior high school):it was established in a.d.1893(meiji 26).
in main campus
the front gate of faculty of integrated human studies(formerly,the front gate of third high school):it was established in a.d.1897(meiji 30).
in yoshida-south campus
sonjo-do:established in a.d.1903(meiji 36)
in main campus
faculty of letters exhibition hall:established in a.d.1914(taisho 3)
in main campus
the front gate and the gatehouse of the faculty of agriculture:they were built in a.d.1924(taisho 13).
in north campus
rakuyu kaikan:established in a.d.1925(taisho 14)
this is the alumni association's building,which celebrates its 25th anniversary from foundation this year.
in yoshida-south campus
documentation and information center for chinese studies(formerly,kyoto institute of eastern culture under the control of the ministry of foreign affairs):it was established in a.d.1930(showa 5).
in north campus
the former administrative bureau's office of the forest station attached to the faculty of agriculture:it was built in a.d.1931(showa 6).
in north campus
and,some characteristic buildings also exist,though not registered as cultural assets.
student affairs department of kyoto university health service:the building had been established in a.d.1898(meiji 31),and the second floor was built onto it in a.d.1922(taisho 11).
it stands in main campus.
formerly,this place was used as classroom of physics and petrochemistry,and has produced several nobel prize winners who studied those subjects,so it's nicknamed "building of nobel prize".
the main hall of the anatomy class of the faculty of medicine:it was built in a.d.1901(meiji 34).
in faculty of medicine campus
the former assembly room of the third high school:it was built in a.d.1911(meiji 44).
in yoshida-south campus
surroundings
mainly along imadegawadori street and higashioji street,old book stores,restaurants,cafes and the like stand,contributing to the atmosphere of the student town.
around the campus,there exist many things related to the teaching staff and students,such as, "tetsugaku no michi(path of philosophy)" related to kitaro nishida,the great philosopher and the professor of kyoto imperial university,and the monument in mt.yoshida inscribed with the words of "shoyo no uta(song of wandering kyoto)".
hyakumanben,used as the nickname of kyoto university in novels and others,originates from chion-ji temple(formally,daihonzan hyakumanben chion-ji temple),neighboring the campus.
uji campus
faculty using uji campus:none
graduate schools using uji campus:graduate school of engineering,agriculture,energy science,and informatics(not all,their partial departments)
attached facilities using uji campus:research institute for sustainable humanoshere,institute for chemical research,institute of advanced energy,disaster prevention research institute,institute of sustainability science,and pioneering research unit for next generation
access:on foot,it takes 5 minutes both from obaku station of jr nara line and from obaku station of keihan uji line.
the campus was founded in 1947,utilizing the site of the japanese army's powder magazine.
from 1950 to 1960 academic year,lectures had been given to freshmen of the college of liberal arts and sciences.
and now,there is no lecture of the faculty here.(but exceptionally,some intensive lectures are held in uji campus,which are commonly taught in all faculties during the summer vacation or other occasions.
for example, "a guide to beam science" is given to students by institute of chemical research.)
some laboratories' seniors in faculties of engineering,agriculture and others,do their studies for graduation in this campus.
katsura campus
faculty using katsura campus:none
graduate school using katsura campus:graduate school of engineering(divisions of electric,chemical,architectural and global engineering)
attached facility using katsura campus:international innovation center
access:keihan kyoto kotsu,yasaka group,and kyoto city bus(all bus lines)are available,and you should get off at the stop of "katsura innovation park-mae", "kyodai katsura campus",or "katsura goryozaka" of those bus lines.
about keihan kyoto kotsu,most buses start from katsura station of hankyu kyoto line,and about yasaka group and kyoto city bus,all buses start from mukomachi station of jr.
in 1990s,two campuses,yoshida and uji,became too cramped,so the construction of "the third campus" was planned.
initially,the southward of kyoto prefecture,and somewhere in shiga prefecture,were picked up as candidate sites,but kyoto city proposed "katsura goryozaka",which was developed as the residential area,so they selected this place in the end.
in 2003,divisions of chemical and electric engineering transferred here completely and began to utilize this campus.
the campus is divided into four "clusters" from a to d,and part of cluster c and d are still under construction as of 2006.
in addition,there exists a project that the tozai line,one of kyoto municipal subway lines,will extend its line to the place around katsura campus,but its date and other concrete agendas are undecided yet.
the transportation between the campuses
a shuttle bus for the students and teaching staff is available between the campuses.
the bus makes 6 round trips a day between yoshida(main campus)and uji(this line is commonly called "uji bus"),7 round trips a day between yoshida and katsura,and 3 round trips a day between uji and katsura respectively,and each trip needs around from 50 minutes to one hour.
but the students complain the traffic jam and others make it difficult to keep the punctual service,and that the last bus starts so early they have to use the public transportation after that.
university cafeterias
university cafeterias,operated by kyoto university co-op,say they have the largest number of menus in all universities in japan.
especially,they have many kinds of parfaits that are rare in other university cafeterias.
"lune",the cafeteria near the west hall,serves parfaits as many as 16 kinds regularly,and including seasonal ones,it's checked to have about 40 kinds of parfaits for now.
and "brucke",the cafÃ© set up next to the "nanbu restaurant",also has unique parfaits.
parfaits are also available at "chuo restaurant", "yoshida restaurant",and "camphora",which operates in main campus.
student dormitories
student dormitories of kyoto university are allowed wide-ranging activities of autonomy.
and yoshida-ryo is the oldest student dormitory in japan of all national university corporations' ones.
yoshida-ryo
for details,please refer to the official website of kyoto university's "yosida-ryo".
kumano-ryo
the buildings are four-storied ferroconcrete ones.
kumano-ryo consists of building a,b,c,and the restaurant.
about 350 people,kyoto university students,their families,and others,are living here.
joshi-ryo(women's dormitory)
available to women students only
muromachi-ryo
available to graduate students
relation with japanese society
b main page
b information about the entrance examination of kyoto university
notes
students and others call the faculty of medicine "kyo-i",the faculty of engineering "kyo-ko",and the faculty of science "kyo-ri" respectively.
kyoto university was one location of "galileo" (tv drama),based on keigo tono's novel, "detective galileo".
official website
