doshisha women's college of liberal arts
overview
outline of the university
doshisha women's college of liberal arts is a protestant college comprising four faculties and ten departments,having been reorganized in 1949 as a successor of the former advanced course of doshisha girls' school.
the college has two campuses:the kyotanabe campus,which covers a vast area in suburban kyoto;and the imadegawa campus,which is located in the heart of kyoto city.
founding spirit
the "school regulations of the doshisha women's college of liberal arts" were set forth on february 17 1942,stating that the institution would provide education based on "christianity" with "internationalism" and "liberal arts" as its educational philosophies.
education and research
the goal of the college was to educate women in the liberal arts,and it was given the english name "doshisha women's college of liberal arts."
the college focuses on the study of waka,one of the japanese traditional cultures,and has acquired a reputation for its study among women's colleges.
history
brief history
joseph hardy neesima(jo niijima)opened a school for girls in 1876(later called the doshisha girls' school),which was ultimately the predecessor of the doshisha women's college of liberal arts.the school was within the kyoto imperial palace park,and it was also the residence of the doshisha's teacher davis,in which former court nobility(the yanagihara family,from which emperor taisho's mother came)had lived.
even in those days neesima knew the importance of offering education for women,and this led him to establish a college for women(at the time,doshisha university was for men only).
chronology
1876:doshisha girls' juku was established.
1877:doshisha bunko nyokoba was reopened as a successor of the doshisha girls' juku.
in september of the same year it was renamed as the doshisha girls' school.
1930:the advanced course of doshisha girls' school was founded.
1949:the advanced course of doshisha girls' school was abolished,and doshisha women's college of liberal arts(with the departments of english literature,music and food science)was founded.
1967:the faculty of home economics(including the departments of home economics and food science)was founded.
1986:the tanabe campus(the present-day kyotanabe campus)was opened.
1986:doshisha women's junior college(including the departments of english and american language,japanese language,and literature)was founded.
1989:the faculty of the liberal arts department of japanese language and literature was founded.
2000:the faculty of the contemporary social studies department of social system studies was founded.
2002:the faculty of the liberal arts department of information and media was founded.
2003:doshisha women's junior college was abolished.
2004:the faculty of the contemporary social studies department of childhood studies was founded.
2005:the faculty of the pharmaceutical sciences department of clinical pharmacy was founded.
2007:the faculty of the liberal arts department of international studies was founded.
2009:the faculty of the culture and representation departments of japanese language and literature,as well as english,are scheduled for establishment.
basic data
location
imadegawa campus(imadegawa-dori teramachi nishi-iru,kamigyo-ku,kyoto city)
kyotanabe campus(kodo,kyotanabe city,kyoto prefecture)
symbol
emblem
the emblem of doshisha women's college of liberal arts has three triangles,which are also featured in the emblem of the doshisha,and under these triangles there are the letters "dwcla" (which together stand for doshisha women's college of liberal arts).
school color
purple(a medium color between tyrian purple and edo purple)and white
it is the same school color as that of amherst college,where the founder,joseph hardy neesima,studied.
the college song
words by kunitomo emori and music by kazuko hara
education and research
organization
faculty
faculty of liberal arts
the department of japanese language and literature(which is to be reorganized as the faculty of culture and representation department of japanese language and literature in 2009)
the department of english(which is to be reorganized as the faculty of culture and representation department of english in 2009)
department of music
major in music performance
major in music culture
department of information and media
department of international studies
faculty of contemporary social studies
department of social system studies
department of childhood studies
the faculty of human life and science
the department of human life studies
department of food science and nutrition
major in food science
major in food science and dietetics
faculty of pharmaceutical sciences
department of clinical pharmacy
graduate programs
graduate school of literary studies
english
japanese studies
information and cultural studies
the graduate school of human life and science
food science and nutrition studies
lifestyle design studies
graduate school of international social system studies
international social system studies
affiliated institutions
doshisha women's college library
the center for promotion of academic research
center for educational development
research
the doshisha women's college of liberal arts was not chosen for the 21st century center of excellence program and academic research promotion work in private universities.
campus life
university festival
like doshisha university,doshisha women's college of liberal arts holds "doshisha eve" on the imadegawa campus every year for three days prior to november 29,which is the anniversary of the founding of the doshisha english school.
all the doshisha schools once celebrated "doshisha eve" together,but since the 1950s each school has come to hold its own festival,and in 1962 "doshisha eve" at doshisha women's college of liberal arts was officially approved as a university festival.
people related to the university and organization
an organization for people related to the university
doshisha women's college of liberal arts has an alumni association called "vine," in which all graduates are included.
the word "vine" means a "climbing plant" or "grapevine" in english,and the alumni association was named after it in the hope of fostering a connection between the university and its graduates.
facilities
campus
kyotanabe campus
faculties using the kyotanabe campus:the faculties of contemporary social studies,liberal arts and pharmaceutical sciences
graduate schools using the kyotanabe campus:the graduate schools of literary studies and international social system studies
affiliated institution:kyotanabe library
access:katamachi line(gakken toshi line)doshisha-mae station;kintetsu kyoto line of kintetsu corporation kodo station
the tanabe campus was opened in 1986 as a part of the kansai science city,and in 1999 it was renamed as the kyotanabe campus.
it has a huge land area,and is located next to the doshisha university kyotanabe campus and doshisha international junior and senior high school.
imadegawa campus
faculties using the imadegawa campus:the faculties of human life and science,culture and representation(scheduled to open in the 2009 academic year)
graduate school using the imadegawa campus:the graduate school of human life and science
affiliated institution:imadegawa library
access:karasuma line of the kyoto city subway line imadegawa station;keihan oto line of the keihan electric railway demachiyanagi station.
the imadegawa campus was constructed on the former estate of the nijo family,one of the five regent families.
it is located next to doshisha university imadegawa campus,doshisha girls' junior and senior high school,doshisha kindergarten and sokoku-ji temple.
also,eiko-kan and james-kan within the campus have been registered as tangible cultural properties.
james-kan,designed by goichi takeda,was completed in 1914.
international relations
agreement with local government
agreement with kyotanabe city
as one of the regional collaboration programs,kyotanabe city established an agreement with doshisha women's college of liberal arts,doshisha university,and doshisha international junior and senior high school to work together in a wide range of activities.
agreement with a corporation
ana strategic research institute co.,ltd.
agreements with other universities
credit transfer system
doshisha university
only for students in their sophomore year or above
the open university of japan
the consortium of universities in kyoto
studying at other domestic universities for a year
ferris university
japan women's university
comprehensive academic exchange agreement
nara medical university
agreements with overseas institutions
chatham college(u.s.a.)
fairfield university(u.s.a.)
mary baldwin college(u.s.a.)
smith college(u.s.a.)
sweet briar college(u.s.a.)
wells college(u.s.a.)
lancaster university(u.k.)
royal holloway,university of london(u.k.)
university of warwick(u.k.)
university of victoria(canada)
universitat des saarlandes(germany)
griffith university(australia)
beijing university(china)
seoul women's university(korea)
affiliated high schools
osaka shin-ai jogakuin high school
baika senior high school
seibo gakuin high school
osaka jogakuin senior high school
educational institutions affiliated with the doshisha
like doshisha women's college of liberal arts,there are other educational institutions affiliated with the doshisha.
university
doshisha university
high school
doshisha high school
junior and senior high school
doshisha girls' junior and senior high school
doshisha kori junior and senior high school
doshisha international junior and senior high school
junior high school
doshisha junior high school
elementary school
doshisha elementary school
kindergarten
doshisha kindergarten
related schools
gakko hojin niijima gakuen
niijima gakuen junior and senior high school
niijima gakuen junior college
social association
cultural properties
registered tangible cultural properties
architecture
james-kan
eiko-kan
affiliated school
doshisha girls' junior and senior high school is not affiliated with the doshisha women's college of liberal arts but with the doshisha;therefore,no school is affiliated with doshisha women's college of liberal arts.
