bukkyo university
bukkyo university,a private institution established by the jodo sect,is located in kita-ku,kyoto city,kyoto prefecture.
known as butsu-dai
the founding director is the jodo-shu educational group of the educational foundation.
the same foundation established kacho college.
summary
history of establishment
in 1615,the jodo sect established kanto-juhachi-danrin in edo,which grew to be a temporary kangaku-ba,which was established in 1868 in chioninzan(thus the establishment of the school was in 1968,and the 'monument to the school's establishment' is in front of chion-in sanmon).
subsequently,the school developed for the purpose of promoting education and rearing priests of the jodo sect as a high educational institution,and was renamed several times for mergers and independence in the reformation of education;in 1912,based on the professional school act,it was re-established after the establishment of koto gakuin.
in 1913 it was renamed as the bukkyo professional school,and in 1949 it was promoted to bukkyo university under the new system of education in 1949.
before 1922 the school now called ryukoku university was known as bukkyo university;however,there is no relationship to the bukkyo university described in this article.
education,institution of research
after the promotion,the school started with only the school of buddhism and the department of buddhism as a college,but as of 2006 it is a university with five faculties,10 departments and four research departments,12 professional courses and a graduate college(which has established the faculty of insurance and the medical technology in science course).
moreover,in 1953 the correspondence division was created as the only regular course among buddhist universities in kansai.
there are 20,000 students studying in four faculties,seven departments,three research departments and 12 professional courses,making it one of largest correspondence divisions of any university in japan.
it is well known as the only school that provides a teacher's certificate in the department of buddhism.
university features
the university's philosophy is the study of buddhism(as evidenced by the school's name);accordingly,the first school regulations stated that 'the purpose is to bring up the active person who has a high sense of judgment based on the buddhist spirit,with a mission of contributing to the advancement of world society and enhancing the welfare of humanity.'
it is possible to become a licensed jodo sect teacher and missionary of the jodo sect from any of the departments,because the institute is used extensively for training in buddhist studies.
thus there was a department for the study of buddhism within the school of literature,but when the department was reorganized it joined with the department of history and the department of japanese language,and in the 2004 academic year the department of literature became the department of the humanities.
today one can take courses in jodo buddhism and buddhist studies through the department of the humanities within the school of literature.
therefore,the faculty of buddhism was abolished in 1965,but officially it was planned to revive it in or around april 2010.
contrary to a trend to remove 'buddhism' from the names of faculties and departments,it declares itself to be 'the center of the university for the study of buddhism.'
philosophy of establishment
the philosophy of establishment is 'the spirit of buddhism.'
school badge
the word 'university' is arranged with an apricot leaf as a family crest of the uruma family,which is a founder of the jodo sect honen's birthplace.
it was established in april 1949.
when the school was bukkyo senmon gakko(bukkyo professional school),the school badge was an apricot leaf arranged with the word 'professional.'
incidentally,the crest of the jodo sect is a moon shadow with an apricot leaf.
emblem
the emblem is the initial of school name 'b,' and on the right side there are five colorful lines.
one can see the emblem on campus more than the school badge.
it was established in october 1991.
school song
it was established in april 1936 as a school song of bukkyo senmon gakko(bukkyo professional school).
the lyrics were written by zonyu konishi,who was the principal at that time,and the music was by tsunezo yoshida.
1.bright eternal city where the green grows.
here is our school in oryo,here is our school in oryo,and here is our school in oryo.
2.the light of day in spring in kurotani,which blocks the light.
who opens the hoonzo,who opens the hoonzo,who opens the hoonzo.
3.look up at the top of kacho,the high precept will be prospered.
the god of returning foolishness does exist,the god of returning foolishness does exist,and the god of returning foolishness does exist.
4.distressed five impure worlds,purged of these with buddhism.
fly the flag of judgment,fly the flag of judgment,and fly the flag of judgment.
name
the correct name is '佛教大学' ('bukkyo university,')not '仏教大学' ('buddhist university.')
the correct name in english is 'bukkyo university,' not 'buddhist university.'
therefore,the word 'bukkyo' is not a common noun but a proper noun.
the well-known popular name is 'butsudai,' but some people called 'fura-dai' (butsu is an abbreviation for france)or 'pon-dai' (pon is the sound of a buddhist wooden drum).
also,some elderly people in murasakino call it 'bussen,' which is the abbreviated name for bukkyo senmon gakko(bukkyo professional school).
therefore,ryukoku university used to be called 'bukkyo university(buddhist college)' before 1922,but now there is no relationship to bukkyo university.
affiliated school
kacho junior college
history
1615:kanto juhachi danrin was established.
1868:the temporary kangaku-ba was founded in chion-in yamauchi genko-in temple.
1870:it became kangaku-ba
1871:it was founded in nyushin-in temple as kangaku-ba.
1875:it became a kangaku-ba.
1876:it was renamed as shugakko seibu honko.
1877:it was relocated to the former kacho no miya.
1879:it was renamed as jodo-shu sohonzan shugakko.
1884:it was renamed as seibu daigakurin.
1887:it merged with tobu daigakurin and founded shugaku honko,while seibu sogakko became koto honka.
1891:it became shugaku honko koto senmonka.
1898:shugaku honko was divided,while the buddhism main specialized department became jodo-shu senmon gakuin and was relocated to a temporary school in hyakumanben-san.
1901:it was relocated to shishigatani.
1903:it was approved under the professional school act.
1904:it became jodo-shu daigakuin bunko.
1904:it became a jodo-shu daigaku bunko and founded the department of professional studies.
1907:it became the religious university,extension campus.
1907:it established the religious university,extension campus rokkeikai(the present students' association and alumni reunion).
1912:it established koto gakuin under the professional school act,and became independent from religious university(religious university became taisyo university in 1926).
1913:it was renamed as bukkyo professional school.
1933:it was relocated to rakuhoku-senbon-kitaoji,which is the present location.
1949:it was promoted to bukkyo university based on the new school system and thereby installed the school of buddhism's department of buddhism.
1953:the correspondence division was installed.
1967:the first festival,the oryo festival,was held.
1968:the department of education was established within the school of literature and the correspondence division.
1971:the japanese history program and the asian history course within graduate school of literature,(m.a.),the sociology program within the graduate school of sociology(m.a.)and the buddhist studies program within the correspondence division were installed.
1975:the department of english was installed within the school of literature.
1976:the bukkyo university attached kindergarten was established.
1977:the graduate school ph.d.program was established.
the school installed the japanese history program within the graduate school of literature,the oriental history program,the sociology program within the graduate school of sociology/graduate school of social welfare,and various other programs(buddhism studies).
1981:the school installed the department of english within the school of literature with the correspondence division,and installed the japanese literature program within the graduate school of literature(m.a.).
1984:the bukkyo university shijo extension center was established.
1986:the department of chinese literature was established within the school of literature.
1987:the british and american literature program was established within the graduate school of literature(m.a.).
1989:it installed the school of education(opened the department of social education and the department of education was transferred from the school of literature),and installed the department of applied sociology within the school of sociology.
1991:the educational foundation was relocated from tokyo to kyoto(the current location),and the research institute of bukkyo university was established;additionally,the japanese literature program was installed within the graduate school of literature(ph.d.)buddhist culture program(m.a.),and the department of chinese literature was installed within the school of literature in conjunction with the correspondence division.
1992:the bukkyo university los angeles extension was established.
1993:the chinese literature program was installed within the graduate school of literature(m.a.),the lifelong education program was installed within the graduate school of education,and the buddhist nursing course was established as a major.
1995:the school installed the department of applied sociology within the school of sociology together with the correspondence division,and installed the british and american literature program within the graduate school of literature(ph.d.).
1996:the school installed the department of education within the school of education together with the correspondence division.
1997:seitokujoshokan(new library)was established.
1998:the school installed the jodo buddhism program,buddhist culture program and chinese literature program within the graduate school of literature(ph.d.).
1999:the school renamed the department of social education within the school of education as the department of lifelong education,and opened a graduate school with the correspondence division(the first certified program);additionally,it installed the jodo buddhism program,buddhist studies program,buddhist culture program,japanese history program,oriental history program,chinese literature program,and the british and american literature program within the graduate school of literature(m.a.),the lifelong education program within the graduate school of education(m.a.),and the social welfare program within the graduate school of social welfare(ma).
2000:the school installed the department of clinical psychology within the school of education,and established the department of health welfare within the school of sociology.
2001:the school installed the graduate school of education,lifelong education program(ph.d.)and opened the graduate school of literature,japanese literature program and the sociology program within the graduate school of the correspondence school of the correspondence division;additionally,the department of japanese literature renamed as the department of japanese language and literature,the department of chinese literature was renamed as the department of chinese language and literature,and the department of english literature was renamed as the department of english language,british and american literature.
2002:the foundation merged with gakkohojin kacho gakuen and installed the clinical psychology program within the graduate school of education
2003:the school installed the buddhist studies program(ph.d.),japanese history program(ph.d.)and clinical psychology program(m.a.)within the graduate school of the correspondence division.
2004:the school reorganized faculties:the school of literature department of buddhism,department of history,and the department of japanese language and literature were organized as the department of the humanities;the school of sociology of the department of sociology and the department of applied sociology were organized as the department of contemporary sociology,department of public policy;and the school of sociology of the department of social welfare and the department of health welfare were organized as the school of sociology department of social welfare.
the department of chinese language and literature was renamed as the department of chinese,and the department of english language,british and american literature was renamed as the department of english.
2005:the school installed the clinical psychology program within the graduate school of education(ph.d.).
2006:the school installed the school of health science(opening the departments of physical therapy and occupational therapy),and also installed the graduate school of social welfare.
2010:the school plans to establish the school of buddhism.
faculties and departments
school of literature
department of humanities(course in jodo buddhism and buddhist studies,course in buddhism art,course in japanese history,course in asian history,course in regional cultural studies,course in japanese language and literature)
department of english(course in english language and british and american literature)
department of chinese(course in chinese language and literature)
faculty of education
department of education(course in education)
department of clinical psychology(course in clinical psychology)
faculty of sociology
department of contemporary sociology(course in culture and identity,course in human relations and social problems,course in information and media)
department of public policy(course in community and environment,course in public management)
faculty of social welfare
department of social welfare(course in social-work practice,course in welfare planning and development,course in health welfare,course in life design)
faculty of health sciences
department of physical therapy
department of occupational therapy
graduate school
department of literature
master of arts(jodo buddhism program,buddhist studies program,buddhist culture program,japanese history program,oriental history program,japanese literature program,chinese literature program,british and american literature program)
doctor of philosophy(jodo buddhism program,buddhist studies program,buddhist culture program,japanese history program,oriental history program,japanese literature program,chinese literature program,british and american literature program)
department of education
master of arts(lifelong education program,clinical psychology program)
doctor of philosophy(lifelong education program)
sociology program
master of arts(sociology program)
doctor of philosophy(sociology program)
social welfare program
master of arts(social welfare program)
doctor of philosophy(social welfare program)
the first semester of ph.d.is classified as m.a.
non-degree graduate program
buddhist studies program(offers a course in buddhist studies and a course in buddhist nursing-currently not accepting applications.)
different courses
training program for the jodo priesthood(special buddhist program)
correspondence division,faculty and department
faculty of literature
department of humanities(course in jodo buddhism and buddhist studies,course in buddhist art,course in japanese history,course in asian history,course in regional cultural studies,course in japanese language and literature)
department of english
department of chinese
faculty of education
department of education
faculty of sociology
department of contemporary sociology
department of public policy
faculty of social welfare
department of social welfare
major departments(teacher license/certification)
required courses(licenses,certifications,liberal arts)
certification of honka entrance course
continuing education(calligraphy course,buddhism course,course in the history and culture of kyoto)
correspondence division of graduate school
graduate school of literature
master of art(jodo buddhism program,buddhist studies program,buddhist culture program,japanese history program,oriental history program,japanese literature program,chinese literature program,british and american literature program)
doctor of philosophy(buddhist studies program,japanese history program)
graduate school of education
master of art(lifelong education program,clinical psychology program)
graduate school of sociology
master of art(sociology program)
graduate school of social welfare
doctor of philosophy(social welfare program)
the first semester of ph.d.is classified as m.a.
facilities
murasakino campus(kitahananobo-cho,murasakino,kita-ku,kyoto city,kyoto prefecture)
school buildings(building no.5 and subsequent buildings are relatively newer and clean,but building nos.1 through 4 are very old and not clean)
library(seitokujoshokan)
sonobe campus(jonan,sonobe-cho,nantan city,kyoto prefecture)
all-purpose ground
track-and-field and soccer ground
tennis court
baseball ground
indoor practice center
clubhouse
training camp center
(there is a grave of the lord of domain koideko on the campus,but it's not a school facility)
iwakura sogo ground(iwakura,sakyo-ku,kyoto city,kyoto prefecture)
all-purpose area
tennis court
seminar house
hirosawa ground(hirosawa,ukyo-ku,kyoto city,kyoto prefecture)
all-purpose area
tennis court
research and information center for asian religious culture of bukkyo university
university attached kindergarten
other institutions
training center for shumon successors
research institute of bukkyo university
research and information center for asian religious culture of bukkyo university
welfare educational development center
bukkyo university shijo extension center
institute of clinical psychology of bukkyo university
bukkyo university los angeles extension
kindergarten attached to bukkyo university
affiliated institutions
special nursing home 'wajun no sato'
student association
gakuyu-kai
all students(except students in the correspondence division)become members of the student association.
the association is not affiliated with the all-japan federation of students' self-governing associations.
it is managed by the executive committee(the highest organization)and the board of representatives,which is the standing committee,and the sports team and club activities approved by the university are also members of the organization gakuyu-kai(under the executive committee).
also,the events for daytime students such as oryo-sai and shibasakura-sai are organized by gakuyu-kai.
correspondence division's gakuyu-kai
this is the student association for the students of the correspondence division.
it is intended for the development of studies and friendships.
there are 45 branches,membership in which is based on the area in which the student resides.
it held an event that involved summer schooling.
alumni association
alumni association
it was founded when "shukyo daigaku bunko" existed,having been organized by graduates of bukkyo professional school and bukkyo university,and was classified into faculty,graduate school,majors and different courses.
they publish 'murasakino' and are in charge of congratulatory or condolatory duties.
there are 28 domestic branches and four overseas branches.
oryo alumni reunion
this is a reunion organized by graduates of the correspondence division
it started with the first graduates in 1957.
relationships with others
domestic education exchange school
it is affiliated with the kyoto graduate union of religious studies with doshisha university,ryukoku university,otani university,koyasan university,hanazono university and shuchiin university.
it concluded agreements regarding the certified elementary school teacher's license course with ryukoku university,kyoto sangyo university,kyoto bunkyo university,kansai university of welfare science,kogakkan university,aichi university and kyushu sangyo university.
it concluded an agreement on educational cooperation with nara prefecture heijo high school.
overseas education exchange school
asia
republic of korea
wonkwang university
dongguk university
kangnam university
people's republic of china
northwest university
taiwan
tunghai university
tzu chi university
vietnam
ho chi minh city university of foreign languages-information technology
