kyoto prefectural vocational training school of agriculture and forestry(under the old system of education)
kyoto prefectural vocational training school of agriculture and forestry was a public vocational school founded under the old education system in 1944.
when established,it was called the kyoto prefectural higher school of agriculture and forestry.
this section describes the school,including its predecessors such as kyoto prefectural school of agriculture and forestry.
summary
it was one of the agriculture and forestry high schools established during world war ii to enhance the agricultural system.
the regular courses(three-year courses)were offered at the department of agriculture and department of forestry(department of agricultural chemistry was added later).
it was established under the name of kyoto prefectural higher school of agriculture and forestry,but was soon renamed kyoto prefectural vocational training school of agriculture and forestry.
the school evolved into the faculty of agriculture,(kyoto prefectural)saikyo university(present-day faculty of agriculture,kyoto prefectural university),which was established under the new education system.
its alumni association, 'alumni association of kyoto prefectural university,' is made up of graduates from schools under both new and old systems.
history
prehistory
1892:kyoto prefectural nokai(agricultural association of kyoto prefecture;founded in october 1891)obtained approval from the kyoto prefectural assembly to establish agricultural training institute.
december 1892:the central agricultural experiment station was established for the prefectural nokai.
the station is the origin of the kyoto prefectural research institute of agriculture and university farm of kyoto prefectural university.
april 1893:kyoto prefectural nokai opened the agricultural training institute.
it gave rotating lecture tours each lasting about two weeks to one month.
the simplified agricultural school of kyoto prefecture
april 1895:simplified agricultural school of kyoto prefecture was opened(under the order of kyoto prefecture no.40).
it was based on the rules for simplified agricultural schools(issued by the ministry of education in july 1894).
those aged 14 or over who had finished at least jinjo elementary school were accepted into the school,and two years were required for completing a course of study.
the prefectural agricultural training institute became the bunkyojo classroom attached to the simplified agricultural school of kyoto prefecture.
april 1896:a supplementary course(one-year course)was launched.
september 1896:the school was relocated to katsura village,kadono district.
the agricultural experiment station of prefectural nokai was also moved.
the agricultural school of kyoto prefecture
april 1898:the school changed its name to the agricultural school of kyoto prefecture(under the order of kyoto prefecture no.36).
those aged 14 or over who had finished upper elementary school were accepted into the school,and three years were required for completing a course of study.
graduate program(one-year program)was set up.
august 1899:due to a revision of regulations,the graduate program was reorganized into a non-degree course for graduates,and a preparatory course was newly added.
vocational school order and agricultural school regulations designated the school as a class-a agricultural school.
the preparatory course required one year for completion and admitted those who had finished their third year of upper elementary school or those who had equivalent ability.
february 1900:the agricultural experiment station of prefectural nokai was renamed the kyoto prefectural agricultural experiment station.
march 1901:the bunkyojo classroom agricultural training institute attached to the school became to be used for the school's special course.
the kyoto prefectural agricultural school
september 1901:the school was renamed kyoto prefectural agricultural school(under the public notice of the ministry of education no.405).
may 1902:it purchased government-owned forest in oe village,otokuni district,to use for practical training.
april 1903:revision of regulations increased the length of the preparatory course to two years.
third grade of the regular course was divided into first(agriculture)and second(forestry)departments,and a supplementary course was established.
the kyoto prefectural school of agriculture and forestry
april 1904:the school was renamed kyoto prefectural school of agriculture and forestry(under the public notice of the ministry of education no.73).
october 1904:the graduates' association was organized.
march 1907:preparatory and supplementary courses were abolished.
july 1912:its graduates' association got a new name, 'katsura kai' (an alumni organization).
march 1918:the school moved to shimogamo village,otagi district(present-day kyoto prefectural university campus).
the kyoto prefectural agricultural experiment station,except the arboriculture division,was also relocated.
the kyoto prefectural kyoto school of agriculture and forestry
april 1923:the name of the school was changed to the kyoto prefectural kyoto school of agriculture and forestry(under the public notice of the ministry of education no.35).
november 1924:a convention of graduates of the prefectural school of agriculture and forestry passed a resolution to promote the school to a vocational school.
the promotion,however,was not realized for 20 years.
may 1928:first and second departments of the regular course were renamed department of agriculture and department of agriculture and forestry,respectively.
april 1931:department of gardening was added to the regular course.
april 1932:department of agriculture and forestry was abolished and second department of industrial association(one-year course)was established.
april 1934:department of agriculture was renamed department of agriculture and forestry.
september 1934:muroto typhoon destroyed the campus.
december 1936:construction of the main building and gymnasium was completed.
april 1940:five-year department of gardening was opened.
march 1943:second department of industrial association was abolished(because its objectives had been achieved).
the kyoto prefectural higher school of agriculture and forestry
february 22,1944:establishment of the kyoto prefectural higher school of agriculture and forestry was approved by the acts of colleges(public notice of the ministry of education no.149).
april 1,1944:the school was opened.
it was a school upgraded from the kyoto prefectural kyoto school of agriculture and forestry.
it required three years of study and offered regular courses at the department of agriculture and the department of forestry.
the school admitted graduates from the junior high school under the old system of education as well as those who had finished their fourth year of junior high school.
the kyoto prefectural vocational training school of agriculture and forestry
july 26,1944:the school was renamed the kyoto prefectural vocational training school of agriculture and forestry(under the public notice of the ministry of education no.811).
april 1948:department of agricultural chemistry was added as a regular course.
july 1948:an application was made to the ministry of education for establishing the 'kyoto prefectural kyoto university' under the new system,based on the kyoto prefectural vocational training school of agriculture and forestry and kyoto prefectural girls' vocational training school(under the old system of education).
february 11,1949:ministry of education approved the establishment of the prefectural university under the new system.
but,as the name could be easily confused with the national kyoto university's,the school applied for a name change on march 8.
april 1949:kyoto prefectural saikyo university was inaugurated under the new system(faculty of letters and domestic science and faculty of agriculture).
the faculty of agriculture was based on the kyoto prefectural vocational training school of agriculture and forestry.
may 1950:when kyoto prefectural agricultural experiment station was relocated to kameoka city,it transferred shimogamo farm to the saikyo university.
march 1951:kyoto prefectural vocational training school of agriculture and forestry under the old education system was closed.
campus
period of predecessors
at the time it was establishment in 1895,the simplified agricultural school occupied the premises of the sub-temple of daitoku-ji temple in omiya village,otagi district,kyoto prefecture(present-day kita ward,kyoto city).
in april of the following year,i.e.,1896,it opened a branch school in the nishiyama branch temple of jodo shinshu sect(the true pure land sect of buddhism)honpa hongwan-ji school located in aza kawashima,kawaoka village,kadono district(present-day nishikyo ward,kyoto city).
in june of that year,the campus in daitoku-ji temple was closed and integrated into the branch school.
the school moved to a new campus that was completed in september of the same year in katsura village,kadono district(near the present point where the hankyu kyoto line and the hankyu arashiyama line meet at about 200 meters north of hankyu railway katsura station).
in 1918,the school was relocated to shimogamo village,otagi district(present-day sakyo ward,kyoto city).
the kyoto prefectural higher school of agriculture and forestry and kyoto prefectural vocational training school of agriculture and forestry
the schools used the shimogamo campus of their predecessor,the kyoto prefectural kyoto school of agriculture and forestry,until the kyoto prefectural vocational training school of agriculture and forestry was abolished.
their successor,the faculty of agriculture,saikyo university was established under the new education system at the same campus.
the university changed its name to kyoto prefectural university in may 1959,but is still in the same place.
the university's main building was completed in december 1936,but was demolished in 1979 to make way for the current administration building built in may 1980.
main gate pillars were set up around 1936 and have been used since then.
