kyoto city university of arts
kyoto city university of arts is a public university which is located in nishikyo ward,kyoto,and is one of the premiere universities for arts and music in japan.
foundation
faculty of fine arts originates from kyoto-fu gagakko(kyoto prefectural school of painting)which was founded in 1880.
in june,the school was named nihon saisho kyoto gagakko" (japan first kyoto-style art school)by daijo-daijin(grand minister),duke sanetomi sanjo.
the opening ceremony for the school was held in the temporary school building at jugosato goten palace in kyoto gyoen national garden in july.
in the background,various kyoto modern painters' schools including the maruyama and shijo schools were on the verge of collapse because they lost their patronage upon transfer of the capital to tokyo,because they were,as traditional culture,treated disfavorably due to civilization and enlightenment.
in order to get art activities back into shape,citizens voiced their desire to establish a modern 'school' as a faculty for training artists,and the school was founded as a result of their enthusiasm.
another purpose was to activate art circles that were closely related to traditional arts and crafts,which were the main industries of kyoto,in order to support the modernization of traditional arts and crafts.
during the three-year term of training at kyoto prefectural school of painting,various japanese art schools including literati painting,yamato-e painting(a traditional japanese style painting of the late heian and kamakura periods dealing with japanese themes),the kano school were taught.
also,another purpose was to provide education in the design of crafts in order to encourage new industry,and it was history making for a school of that time to introduce western painting in educational courses.
western painting was introduced as the technology art school in 1876 prior to the establishment of kyoto prefectural school of painting and was studied as an industrial technology for drawing construction plans rather than as art and culture,etc.
while the study and research towards western painting was interrupted at the technology art school by ernest fenollosa,in contrast,the department of western painting had not been established for a long time in tokyo fine arts school,a school which was founded later,based on the will of fenollosa and tenshin okakura.
reportedly,it used to be a center for modern kyoto painters in old days,and a large number of human resources were furnished to be located among industries such as ceramics,lacquer craftworks,and dyeing and weaving to invigorate industry.
since meiji era,many japanese painters,oil painters,printmakers,ceramic artists,dyeing and weaving professionals,designers,musicians,and modern art artists have been trained here.
in the past,kyoto city experienced financial difficulties,and the transition of the school to a national university was discussed
however,a large donation was made towards the school by machi-shu(townspeople)and old families with a long history in kyoto in order to rescue the school;this was a result of the strong compassion felt by kyoto citizens due to the financial collapse and after its integration with kyoto-shiritsu ongaku tanki daigaku(kyoto city junior college of music),the school is still a city university thus far.
academic culture
history
in 1880
kyoto-fu gagakko(kyoto prefectural school of painting)was founded within kyoto gyoen national garden in kyoto imperial garden.
in 1889
the management of the school was transferred from kyoto prefectural government to kyoto city,and the name of the school was changed to kyoto-shi bijutsu gakko(kyoto municipal school of arts)two years later in 1891.
craft and design course was established.
the school facilities were moved to chion-in temple and then to various other places including kyoto imperial palace.
in 1901
the name of the school was changed to kyoto-shiritsu bijutsu gakko(kyoto city school of arts),the school was moved to yoshida in 1909,and kyoto-shiritsu kaiga senmon gakko(kyoto city specialist school of painting),an affiliate school in which president of kyoto-shiritsu bijutsu gakko also served as the president,was established.
in 1926
the facilities of both schools were moved to imakumano.
in 1945
the name of kyoto city specialist school of painting was changed to kyoto-shiritsu bijutsu senmon gakko(kyoto city specialist school of arts).
in 1948
kyoto-shiritsu bijutsu kogei gakko(kyoto city specialist school of arts and crafts)was reorganized to become kyoto-shiritsu bijutsu koto gakko(kyoto city senior high school of arts).
music course was established in kyoto municipal horikawa high school.
in 1949
the organization of kyoto city senior high school of arts was succeeded by kyoto municipal hiyoshigaoka high school and other schools(the arts and crafts course in that senior high school was reorganized independently to become kyoto city dohda senior high school of arts in 1980.)
in 1950
kyoto-shiritsu bijutsu senmon gakko was reorganized to become kyoto city university of fine arts.
the special study was established in the music course at horikawa high school.
in 1952
the special study section under the music course at horikawa high school was reorganized independently to become kyoto city junior college of music.
kyoto city junior college of music was moved to shogoin in 1956.
in 1969
kyoto city university of fine arts and kyoto city junior college of music were integrated to become kyoto city university of arts.
in 1980
the school marked 100th anniversary,and the school facilities in imakumano and shogoin were moved to kutsukake-cho,nishikyo ward,the suburbs near a new residential area.
in 2000
the school marked 120th anniversary,the doctor's course(latter program)for graduate school of art was established,and research center for japanese traditional music was launched.
in 2003
the doctor's course(latter program)for graduate school of music was established.
departments and courses
faculty of fine arts
department of fine arts
nihonga(japanese-style painting)course
painting course
sculpture course
printmaking course
conceptual and media art course
responsible for those artistic fields that are not included in the abovementioned courses.
department of design
visual design
environment design
product design
department of crafts
ceramics course
urushi lacquering course
dyeing and weaving course
department of general art science
general art science course
training of art researchers,curators,and exhibition project planners.
faculty of music
department of music
composition course
conducting course
piano course
strings course
winds and percussions course
vocal music course
musicology course
graduate school
master's program
graduate school of art
painting course
nihonga(japanese-style painting),painting,printmaking,and conceptual and media art.
sculpture course
sculpture
design course
visual design,environment design,and industrial design
crafts course
ceramics,urushi lacquering,and dyeing and weaving.
science of art course
conservation course
graduate school of music
composition and musicology course(composition)
composition and musicology course(musicology)
instrumental music course(piano)
instrumental music course(strings)
instrumental music course(winds,percussions)
vocal music course
musicology
doctor's course(latter period)
graduate school of art
nihonga(japanese-style painting)
painting
printmaking
media art
sculpture
audiovisual information design
environmental design
product design
ceramics
urushi lacquering
dyeing and weaving
industrial crafts and design
conservation
science of art
graduate school of music
composition and conducting research course
instrumental music research course
vocal music research course
musicology research course
