kyoto higher craft school(old education system)
kyoto higher craft school is an old system vocational school(specialist school of business)established in 1902.
it has an abbreviated name of 'kyoto koko.'
summary
with the industrial modernization in the meiji period,it was the third established national high school of technology following the tokyo institute of technology,and osaka institute of technology(the old education system).
it was famous for focusing professional training on crafts(industrial designs).
at the time it was established,a regular course(three years required for graduation)was instituted having three departments of dyes,weaving,and designs(including fields of schools of fine arts).
the department of designs was instituted following the existing tokyo fine arts school(the old education system),and tokyo higher technical school.
during the second world war,it was renamed to kyoto special school of technology(abbreviated name:kyoto kosen).
the educational system reform led the school to a parent organization of the faculty of craft(current faculty of craft science)at the kyoto institute of technology.
its alumni association is named 'kyoto kodaikai.'
it is a combined association of the old and new education systems(old department of faculty of crafts)(the faculties of textile and crafts were unified to the faculty of craft science in 2006,and thus the alumni association has a direction to be unified into alumni association of kyoto institute of technology.)
history
period of the kyoto higher craft school
february,1899:in the 13th imperial diet,a proposal was approved to establish the national high school of technology in kyoto city.
march,1901:the school building construction began for the campus at yoshida-cho,kamigyo ward(current yoshidaizumiden-cho,sakyo ward).
march 28,1902:kyoto higher craft school was established(under the 98th imperial edict).
april,1903:it was in conformity with the acts of colleges.
september 10,1903:the first entrance to school was made.
a regular course(three years required for graduation)was instituted for the three departments of dyes,weaving,and designs.
the regular course had been divided into first and second sections until 1923.
the first section was for alumnus of the old education system junior high school,and the second section for alumnus of institute of technology.
1905:school song was established.
"with mt.hiei standing in the background"
november,1913:alumni association of kyoto residents 'takumi-kai' started.
1914:the start of the school year was changed to april.
november,1920:the movement broke out to promote the school to a university.
the movement was changed in favor of an institution of graduate courses with remonstrate of the nakazawa,the former principal.
however,the graduate courses were not established.
may,1926:the alumni association 'kyoto koko-kai' was established.
1929:department of ceramics was added to the regular course(old department of ceramics industry in tokyo institute of technology).
november,1930:it was moved to matsugasaki village,atago district(hashigami-cho,matsugasaki,sakyo ward).
in this year,a new school song was established.
"mt.hiei shining in purple" (words by kiemon kanai,composition by kiyoshi nobutoki)
october,1932:the 30th anniversary memorial festival,and the new school building completion memorial festival for the completion of the new school building were held.
1937:in the regular course,the department of ceramics was renamed the department of ceramics industry.
april,1939:departments of precision instruments and synthetic fiber were added to the regular course.
in the same month,a training course was established for mechanical engineers(two year night course).
march,1941:the training course for mechanical engineers was reorganized into the night graduate course(department of machines,three year course).
april,1942:departments of machinery and second precision instruments(four year night course)were added to the regular course.
period of the kyoto special school of technology
april 1,1944:the name was changed to kyoto special school of technology.
departments in the regular course were renamed:department of ceramics industry and department of chemical industry(old department of synthetic fiber),department of building(old department of design),department of spinning(old departments of dyes plus old department of weaving),and department of machinery(old department of precision instruments plus old department of machinery).
the night graduate course and department of second precision instruments were unified to institute the department of second machinery(four year night course).
a training course for engineers(department of machinery,one year night course)was instituted as another course.
april,1945:department of telecommunications was added to the regular course.
1946:department of telecommunications in the regular course was renamed to department of electricity.
may 31,1949:kyoto institute of technology started under the new education system.
kyoto special school of technology under the old system was included as a parent organization of the faculty of crafts(department of weaving and industry,building crafts,dyeing crafts,and ceramics industry).
departments of machinery,electricity,and chemical industry were not continued in the university under the new education system.
march,1951:kyoto special school of technology under the old system ceased to exist.
april,1951:kyoto institute of technology,industry junior college department was instituted from a parent organization of the departments of machinery,second machinery,electricity,chemical industry in the kyoto special school of technology under the old system as a parent organization(departments at the time of establishment:machinery electric,and chemical industry department,three year night course).
campus
kyoto higher craft school started in the campus of yoshida-cho,kamigyo ward(current yoshidaizumiden-cho,sakyo ward,kyoto university west lecture hall area in kyoto university)that was contributed from kyoto city.
the yoshida campus was reduced due to road expansions,and the koko was built and moved to matsugasaki village,otagi district in kyoto(current hashigami-cho,matsugasaki,sakyo ward)in 1930.
the matsugasaki campus was continued later by the kyoto institute of technology under the new education system.
