kyoto normal school
kyoto normal school(teacher's training school)was established in kyoto prefecture,during world war ⅱ in 1943.
this term describes the kyoto normal school,including its predecessors such as the normal school of kyoto prefecture and the women's normal school of kyoto.
summary
the kyoto normal school was established,after the normal school of kyoto prefecture and women's normal school of kyoto were merged and transferred to government jurisdiction.
it had a boys division and a girls division.
the kyoto normal school had its roots in the normal school of kyoto prefecture,which was established in 1876.
after world war ⅱ,with the educational system reform,kyoto normal school became one of the parent bodies of the new-education-system kyoto gakugei university(present kyoto university of education).
history
prehistory
june 4,1874:a training institute for elementary school teachers was established in the controlling institute for elementary schools in kyoto prefecture.
this training institute was located in the house of the kyoto shugoshyoku(military governor of kyoto)(goyo-residence site of aizu clan),shimodachiuri kamanza(now kamigyo ward kyoto city,the north side of kyoto prefectural government).
february,1875:temporary training institute for teachers was established on the junior high school grounds in kyoto prefecture.
former schools
the normal school of kyoto prefecture
february 14,1876:the governor of kyoto,masanao uemura submitted a letter of inquiry concerning the foundation of the normal school to kunaikyo(minister of the sovereign's household)sanetsune tokudaiji..
april 1,1876:the foundation of the normal school of kyoto prefecture was approved.
june 2,1876:its opening ceremony was held.
a two-year elementary school teacher training course was established,using jugosato goten palace in the ishiyakushi-gomon gate of kyoto gyoen national garden as a temporary campus.
march,1878:the first graduation ceremony was held.
december,1879:the normal school of kyoto prefecture was relocated to a new school building in shimodachiuri kamanza.
the new school building was located in kyoto shugoshoku,goyo-residence site of the aizu clan(now the north side of kyoto prefectural government).
february,1882:kyoto primary school attached to kyoto university of education was opened.
july,1882:teaching instruction and school regulations were revised,according to the outline of instruction for normal schools.
elementary course(one-year),secondary course(two-year)and advanced course(four-year)were established.
november,1884:military gymnastics was introduced.
january 23,1886:kyoto prefectural oki high school's teachers course was transferred to the normal school of kyoto prefecture,and became the normal school girls' division of kyoto prefecture.
the primary school and kindergarten attached to the kyoto university of education were also transferred to the normal school of kyoto prefecture.
its school building was located in komano-machi,sagaru,maruta-machi,dote-machi,kamigyo ward on the site of kujyo house.
april 1,1887:normal school of kyoto prefecture was renamed jinjo normal school of kyoto prefecture,in conformity to shihan gakko rei(normal school order).
four years were required for completing the regular course and students aged 16 or older were allowed to enter.
july,1887:its girls' division was relocated to the residence of former governor,teramachi kojinkuchi agaru,kamigyo ward.
april,1888:its boys' division was relocated to the former school building of kyoto prefectural rakuhoku high school in matsukage-cho,kojinkuchi,第二二番組,kamigyo ward.
it was located around the south of present kyoto prefectural oki high school.
september,1890:the girls' division was also relocated to the site of the boys' division.
april 1,1898:it was renamed the normal school of kyoto prefecture,according to normal school order
four years were required for completing the regular course and boys aged 16 or older and girls aged 15 or older were allowed to enter.
april,1899:normal school of kyoto prefecture was relocated to a new building in kamigamo-mura aza koyama in otagi county.
today,the kyoto primary school attached to the kyoto university of education(murasakino higashi gosyoden-cho)and the kyoto junior high school attached to kyoto university of education(ono-machi,koyamamimami,kita ward)are located in this area.
in the same month,the educational meeting for kyoto prefecture opened the normal preparatory school(it was discontinued in 1907).
january,1908:school regulations was established.(notification no.156 of kyoto prefecture).
the regular course primary department(four-year course,intended for three-year upper elementary school graduates)and regular course secondary department(one-year course,intended for junior high school graduates under the old educational system)were established
april,1908:its girls' division became independent as the women's normal school of kyoto prefecture.
the kyoto prefectural normal school became a men's school.
may,1909:school song was made.
"murasaki nobe no atsusanimo"(lyrics by ue kuromoto,music by kozo yoshida).
april,1911: 'entrance examination incident' occurred.
four doshisha regular course graduates applied for the regular course second department.
they couldn't receive an exemption of examination subjects(against their recognition),because they had not graduated from a middle school established under the higher middle school ordinance,and eventually all four students were rejected.
however,a false report was made that the head of the normal school said he didn't want to accept students from the christian school,doshisha.
march,1920:school regulations were revised;the normal preparatory course(one year course,intended for two-year upper elementary school graduates)was newly established.
april,1925:the regular course primary division changed to a five year course and preparation courses were discontinued.
april,1926:non-degree course for graduates was started(one-year course).
january,1931:term of regular course secondary department was extended to two years.
may,1939:kyoto elementary training institute for teachers for disabled soldiers was attached to the normal school of kyoto prefecture.
april,1942:it was renamed kokumin gakko kundo kyoto training institute for disabled soldiers(it was closed in july,1947).
women's normal school of kyoto
prehistory
january 23,1886:teacher's course of kyoto prefectural oki high school became the normal school girls' division of kyoto prefecture
april,1887:it was renamed the jinjo normal school of kyoto prefecture women's branch.
july,1887:it was relocated from the school grounds of the women's normal school of kyoto to the former governor's house in teramachi kojinguchi agaru,kamigyo ward.
september,1890:it was merged with the men's branch and relocated to the school grounds of the men's branch,第二二番組kojinkuchi matsukage-cho,kamigyo ward.
april,1898:it was renamed normal school of kyoto prefecture women's division.
april,1899:it was relocated to a new building in kamigamo-mura aza koyama,otagi county.
women's normal school of kyoto
april 1,1908:the normal school girls' division of kyoto prefecture became independent from the normal school of kyoto prefecture and opened the women's normal school of kyoto(notification no.72 of kyoto prefecture).
regular course primary department(four-year course,and intended for three-year upper elementary school graduates)and the regular course secondly department(one-year course,and intended for girl's high school graduates)were established.
women's normal school of kyoto was launched,using the former private school building of yoshida junior high school in yoshida-machi,kamigyo ward as its temporary school house.
kyoto city daiichi higher elementary school and daini kinrin elementary school became affiliated with the women's normal school of kyoto.
april,1910:it was moved to a new school building in omiya-mura aza shichiku,otagi county(now kita ward,kyoto city).
omiya prefectural taiho jinjo higher elementary school became affiliated with the women's normal school of kyoto.
december,1917:it was moved to fushimi-cho horiuchi-mura kii county,the site where the agricultural experiment station previously stood(the relocation announcement was made in january,1918.)
now the momoyama junior high school attached to the kyoto university of education is located in this area(momoyama iikamonhigashi-machi fushimi ward kyoto city).
april,1918:kyoto prefectural momoyama girls' high school(present kyoto prefectural momoyama high school)was attached to the women's normal school of kyoto.
in the same month,fushimi sumiyoshi kindergarten and fushimi daisan jinjo elementary school became affiliated with the women's normal school of kyoto,
february,1921:term of the regular course secondary division was extended to one year and four months.
april,1925:term of regular course primary department was changed to five years.
april,1926:non-degree course(one-year)for graduates was opened.
the kyoto normal school
april 1,1943:after the normal school of kyoto prefecture and the women's normal school of kyoto were merged and transferred to government jurisdiction,the kyoto normal school was established.
its men's division was established in the school house of the former kyoto prefectural normal school,while its women's division was established in the school house of the former women's normal school of kyoto.
the regular course(three-year course,intended for graduates of secondary education schools under the old educational system)and preparatory course(intended for upper elementary school graduates)were established.
june 6,1943:its opening ceremony was held.
april,1947:mr.yokota became the school head of kyoto normal school.
the school held a talk with shiga normal school and nara normal school,aiming to get university status by a large-scale merger of schools.
february,1948:the principal negotiated with the executive secretary of kyoto university,due to the ministry of education's one-national-university-in-one-prefecture policy.
it was confirmed that kyoto university didn't have any merger plan.
since kyoto young men's normal school hoped to merge with the kyoto university faculty of agriculture,kyoto normal school decided to get university status by itself.
april,1948:a committee for promotion prepping was established.
june,1948:after kyoto young men's normal school's plan to become a branch school of the kyoto university faculty of agriculture was canceled,kyoto normal school worked together with kyoto young men's normal school to get university status.
may 31,1949:kyoto gakugei university was established under the new educational system.
both kyoto normal school and kyoto young men's normal school were merged with kyoto gakugei university as its parent body.
the head office of the university was established in the former men's division school grounds,the momoyama branch school was established in the former women's division,and the takahara branch school was established in the former kyoto young men's normal school.
march,1951:kyoto gakugei university kyoto normal school(under the old educational system)was discontinued.
relocation and takeover of school lands
kyoto normal school,men's division
kyoto normal school,men's division used the school land in koyamaminami ono-machi,kamigyo ward,kyoto city(now kita ward,kyoto city),which was taken over by its predecessor,kyoto prefectural normal school(its affiliated school used the school land in murasaki no higashi goshyoden-cho).
this school land was taken over by its successor,the kyoto gakugei university that established by the new educational system and used until it was relocated to present location,fukakusa fujinomori-cho,fushimiward(the site of the nineth infantry regiment of the imperial japanese army＝>the site of the u.s.military base,camp fisher)in september,1957.
the former school land in koyamaminami ono-cho became the school land of kyoto junior high school attached to the kyoto university of education(which was renamed from kyoto gakugei university in 1966).
the adjacent kyoto elementary school attached to the kyoto university of education has continued to use the land in murasakino higashi goshyoden-cho.
kyoto normal school,women's division
kyoto normal school women's division used the school land of its predecessor,the women's normal school of kyoto in momoyama-cho fushimi ward,kyoto city(present momoyama iikamon higasi-machi).
this school land was taken over by the new-education-system kyoto gakugei university and became the momoyama branch school.
after the momoyama branch school was discontinued in april 1957,it was merged and relocated to it's current site in fukakusa fujinomori-cho,fushimi ward
now,the momoyama junior high school attached to the kyoto university of education is located in the school land of the former momoyama branch school.
