kyoto seika university
outline of the university
it is a four-year university,having been founded in 1968 at its present address as the foundation of kyoto seika junior college.
currently,there are four undergraduate programs(the faculty of art,faculty of design,faculty of manga and faculty of humanities)and two graduate programs(art studies and literature studies).
the spirit of study(school concept,philosophy,faith)
the philosophies on education are 'liberal autonomy,' 'international principle,' 'cohesive education' and 'foundation of the human being.'
these philosophies have been carried forth from the past to the present,as when the university sponsored the school festival 'kino-sai' and students held the school festival 'satsuki-sai.'
additionally,since the school's founding they have been determined not to create an official school song,school badge and school gate.
(however,recently a school gate and security gate were built for security purposes.)
education and study
it is known as japan's first university to organize a department dedicated to the study of manga.
in 2000,under the auspices of the ministry of education,culture,sports,science and technology,it established the manga cultural study center outside the school as well as the 'kyoto international manga museum,' which is managed together with kyoto city for the study of manga and the collection,safekeeping and exhibition as an expression of culture and media.
additionally,in 2004,for purpose of developing and enhancing educational activities,the center for enhancement of teaching and learning was established in the school.
based on the opportunity to achieve a certificated campus by iso 14001,it has fostered an 'independent student' program through the study of new educational systems and support for the activities of constructing an environmental management system,and has provided a practical educational program with the local and traditional industries in kyoto.
moreover,these activities have often been adopted by the 'support program for distinctive university education,' which supports the ministry of education's activities for the reform of college education.
history
brief history
in 1968,the first president--the late seiichi okamoto--took the lead in founding kyoto seika junior college for the purpose of offering freedom from framework study and the restoration of the student council.
the junior college started only the departments of english and art.
in 1979,the faculty of art was founded.
the junior college department of art was abolished in the same year.
ten years later,in 1989,the faculty of literature was established and the junior college department of english literature was abolished.
in 1993,the graduate school was established in an effort to expand the school as a four-year university.
timeline
1968:kyoto seika junior college was established.
1979:kyoto seika university's faculty of art was established,and the junior college department of art was abolished.
1989:kyoto seika university's faculty of literature was established,and the junior college department of english literature was abolished.
2000:the school established the manga course within the faculty of art as well as the department of environmental and social studies within the faculty of literature.
2001:the school established the organization for human contact and opened the institute for writing and civilizations as well as the manga culture research center and research institute of video media.
2003:it established the department of social and media studies and department of culture and art studies within faculty of literature
2004:it established the research organization of environmental solutions,and opened the environmental business research center,environmental architecture research center and environmental management research center
2006:the school established the faculty of design and the faculty of manga.
education and study
organization
faculty
faculty of literature
department of social media
department of environmental and social studies
department of cultural expression studies
faculty of art
department of fine art
oil-painting course;nihonga(japanese painting)course;sculpture course
department of material expression
ceramics course;textile course
department of media art
printmaking course;video and media arts course
faculty of design
department of visual design
courses in graphic design,illustration and digital creation
department of product design
product communication design course;interior product course
department of architecture
architecture course
faculty of manga
department of cartoon and comic art
cartoon course;comic art course
department of animation
animation course
department of manga production
manga production course
graduate school
graduate school of humanities(master of arts)
literature course
graduate school of art(master of arts 'first semester/second semester')
art studies course
research facilities
environmental business research center
environmental architect research center
environmental management research center
division of literacy
division of first-year students in transition
outdoor art space
education
characteristic support program for university education
auxiliary education for contribution to the social life of the independent student(adopted in the 2004 academic year)
local related education programs operated through initiatives in the cultural industry(adopted in the 2005 academic year)
for thinking "japanese literacy" education(adopted in the 2006 academic year)
facilities
campus
137 kino-cho,iwakura,sakyo-ku kyoto city,kyoto prefecture 606-8588
near kyoto seikadaimae station of eizan electric railway,kurama line
approximately five minutes by school bus from kyoto city subway,kyoto city subway karasuma line,kokusaikaikan station
near kyoto seikadaigaku-mae stop of kyoto bus#40,#50(kokusai kaikan-ichihara)
outside the school facilities
kutsuki house
tango house
international relations
agreements with other universities
affiliations
cumulus is an international art university organization consisting mainly of art and design universities in europe;its purpose is to encourage collaborative study and industry-university cooperation through means of an organizational network.
kyoto seika university is the first member in japan.
a member of the consortium of universities in kyoto
