kyoto university press
kyoto university press is a circle certified by kyoto university for publishing kyoto university's student press "kyoto university press" (commonly known as "kyodai press")and other related publications.
its acronym is 'kup' (from the english name of kyoto university press).
it operates as the only student press organization that is based in kyoto university campus.
it has absolutely no relations to kyoto university student times(collegiate association for the research of principles group)that publishes "kyoto university student times" and kyoto university express editorial desk(unn university news network member)that publishes "kyoto university express."
history
it was established in 1925 as a newspaper division of the students institute,a shinboku organization for all grades(whose chairman being the president)of kyoto imperial university,with its first publication on april 1st.
this came about as publication of university press gathered momentum with the magazine division's experimental reporting of the sports interleague games against tokyo imperial university held the previous year.
it was organized by welcoming yuichi iriyama,a former employee of the yomiuri shimbun,as an adviser,with revision and abolition of the students institute magazine division.
the first division head was professor(at the time)soichiro sasaki.
at first,it bore public relations activities of the school authorities as the university's official publication,but in 1946 it took on an independent accounting system.
in 1972,the university ended up establishing public relations research department(the current secretary and public relations department)in the general affairs division which administered clerical works.
it has developed as a creator of student-produced multimedia,publishing newspapers as well as books,and sponsoring various symposiums and lecture presentations.
it has produced talents to the worlds of mass media,academic,and industrial.
in 1997,it sponsored the 'kyoto university press literary prize for new writers award' and awarded manichi yoshimura's "afternoon at the government-managed giant bathhouse" (yoshimura received akutagawa award six years later).
in terms of media,the predecessor "kyoto imperial university press" was first published in 1925.
due to wartime shortages,it merged with the "imperial university press(predecessor to the present-day tokyo university press)" in 1944 under the new title of "university press."
after the war,it separated from "university press" by april of 1946,and under the new title of "gakuen press," it was published with the whole kansai area students as its target.
in 1959,it changed its title to "kyoto university press" and has continued publication to this day.
in may of 2007,it counted a total of 2400 issues.
history of the organization
1925:it was formed as 'student institutes press division' and held office in the clock tower.
1935:the 'interu-kai foundation' was founded.
1941:with the change in the title for the students institute,it changed its title to 'dogakukai press division.'
1944:it merged with imperial university press and reorganized as 'university press corporation kansai branch office.'
1946:it separated from the said corporation and reorganized as 'kyoto university press' and took on an independent accounting system.
1949:it started a telegram office for candidates passing the entrance examination.
1950:the chief editor and risaburo torigai who was the president(at the time)signed an exchange agreement,and it gained the official recognition of the university.
1970:the 25th convention of university press union(known as zengakushin)was held at kyoto university,and kiyoshi yoshizawa of kyoto university press was elected as the new chairman.
of the university presses nationwide,75 organizations participated(and of those,13 organizations were delegated as chairpersons).
history of the media
1925: "kyoto imperial university press" was first published.
1944:it merged with imperial university press and changed its title to "university press."
1946:it separated from 'university press' and changed its title to "gakuen press;" it was issued every 10 days.
1947:it changed to weekly publication from the june 11th issue.
1959:with the total issue reaching 1000,it changed its title to "kyoto university press."
1965:it published "kyoto university graduates directory" as a 40th anniversary project.
1969:it began publication of a scaled-down edition as a 45th anniversary project.
1970:it published a memorial issue(enlarged 40 pages)for the total number of issues reaching 1500.
1985:it published "the whistle and the military boots:physiognomy of the emperor system fascism" as a 60th anniversary memorial project.
1988:it collaborated in editing and writing for the memorial magazine "records of kyoto university" for the 90th anniversary of foundation of the university.
2005:it published an 80th anniversary memorial issue(enlarged 10 pages)as an 80th anniversary memorial project.
2006:it organized the page space into 'university and general matters,' 'education and research,' and 'culture and life' pages from the april 1st issue.
2007:it changed the numeric notation shown in the page space to mainly european numerals from mainly chinese characters which expressed numbers.
issues
currently,the newspaper is generally published twice a month(day 1st issue,day 16th issue;usually 4 pages),and the price is 100 yen per copy.
it can be purchased at sales boxes found at 7 locations within the university(main gate,north-west gate,western renai,central cafeteria,northern cafeteria,yoshida cafeteria,and library of graduate school of human and environmental studies),and it is also sent out to subscribers nationwide.
it publishes special issues every year,such as 'high school students special issue' in the fall and 'secondary exam special issue' in the winter,and also publishes extra editions(such as national 7 universities general athletic meet results and stone wall cafe riot)in a timely fashion.
that almost everything(including layout)except printing and dispatching is done by students' hands and that there are many analytical articles make it distinctive.
also,every year it publishes an enrollment album for the kyoto university freshmen("kyoto university fresh book")and graduation album for the graduates("kyoto university year book").
it was also publishing its own university information book every year mainly for students aiming for the kyoto university entrance examination,but the publication is currently suspended.
interu-kai foundation
interu-kai foundation is an alumni association like organization of the kyoto university press,which even includes the current students.
interu(interline)is a thin lead plate that is placed between the vertical spacing of types,and it used to be one of the first words that student editors learned.
according to naoyoshi horikawa who named the organization,he wanted to play with the word 'inteli' (intelligence).
recommender
total of several dozen such as kyoto university's successive presidents,honorary professors,active teachers,former teachers,and those outside academia(including the deceased).
office
kyoto university campus,yoshida,sakyo ward,kyoto city,606-8317.
