third high school(under the prewar school educational system)
under the prewar school educational system,third high school was one of the high schools that later became a foundation of the present kyoto university.
the school was commonly called "sanko."
hikoichi orita was its first president.
history
1869:seimi-kyoku was founded in osaka
the school underwent continuous changes in structure and nomenclature.
1870:institute of chemistry(kagakusho)→institute of science(rigakusho)→kaiseijo→
1872:fourth university district no.1 junior high school*→
1873:third university district no.1 junior high school→kaimei gakko→
1874:osaka school of foreign languages→osaka english academy
1879:osaka technical college
1880:osaka middle school
1885:it was reorganized as a branch school of a university,after which the third higher middle school(dai san koto chugakko)was established in 1886.
1887:okayama prefectural medical school became the third higher middle school medical faculty(sakae-machi,okayama city).
the main curriculum(university preparatory education)started.
1889:third higher middle school was relocated from higashi-ku(present-day chuo-ku),osaka city to kamigyo-ku(present-day sakyo-ku),kyoto city.
the college of law was also founded in addition to the already established college of medicine.
1893:the third higher middle school was elevated to status as the third high school.
the main curriculum(university preparatory education)and preparatory course were abolished.
the college of engineering was established.
a preparatory course was re-established for the kyoto imperial university,which was to be founded in 1897(thus restoring university preparatory education).
the colleges of law and engineering closed.(the ordinance was issued in 1901.)
1901:college of medicine was transformed into okayama university.
1949:along with the former kyoto university(called kyoto imperial university until 1947)and the medical specialization division of kyoto university,third high school came to be included in the present kyoto university as its branch school(bunko)and provided education in the liberal arts.
1950:the third high school was abolished once the last of its students had graduated.
1954:the branch school was renamed the college of liberal arts and sciences.
1991:in the course of reforming the college of liberal arts and sciences,the graduate school of human and environmental studies was established.
1992:the college of liberal arts and sciences was reorganized as the faculty of integrated human studies.
the college of liberal arts and sciences was abolished.
2003:the faculties of integrated human studies and human and environmental studies were merged.
*see education system order
