tsukiyomi-jinja shrine(kyoto city)
"tsukiyomi-jinja shrine is a shrine in saikyo ward,kyoto city,kyoto prefecture.
it is a shikinai-sha(shrine listed in the engishiki(list of official shrines))(myojin-taisha shrine),and is currently a sessha(auxiliary shrine(dedicated to a deity close-related to that of a main shrine))of matsuo-taisha shrine.
the main gods worshipped are tsukuyomi,and takamimusubi and they are enshrined as aidono(enshrinement of two or more deities in one building of a shrine).
history
according to nihon shoki(chronicles of japan),originally,abe no omi kotoshiro,who had an oracle of tsukuyomi no kami in iki on the way to mimana as an envoy,reported this to the emperor,and in 487,received land for the shrine in 'utaarasuda,katsuno district,yamashiro province,' where he held a ceremonial transfer of the god of tsukiyomi-jinja shrine(iki city)in iki and ordered oshimi no sukune,the territorial ruler of iki,to worship it.
there are various theories on the presumed location of utaarasuda,that include the uenomura region,the katsuranosato region,and the basin of the arisu-gawa river.
in 856,it was relocated to its current location at the foot of matsuo-yama mountain to avoid water damage.
the descendants of oshimi no sukune were called the urabe clan,and served as shinto priests for generations.
in 701,its regular festival was designated as chokusai(a festival held by imperial order)(the "shoku-nihongi" (the second in a series of chronicles about japan)),and in 906,was granted the shinkai(ranking granted to shinto gods),shoichii(senior first rank),which is the highest rank("fusoryakki").
it is described as the 'kadotsuki-jinja shrine' in the engishiki jinmyocho(list of official shrines),and is ranked as a myojin-taisha shrine.
in 942,it received imperial proclamation as a jingugo.
thus,it's a shrine with a long history,prestige,and independence,but since it has been within the sphere of influence of the matsuo-taisha shrine from long ago it has been considered one of the 'matsuo nana sha.'
on march 21,1877,it was designated as the keigaisessha of matsuo-taisha shrine.
establishment
the current main shrine and front shrine were built in the edo period.
there are the following keidaisha(shrines within the compounds of other shrines).
shotoku taishi sha--enshrines prince shotoku,who revered tsukuyomi no mikoto.
mifune sha--enshrines amenotorifune no kami.
prior to the shinko-sai festival,the togyo anzenkigan-sai festival is held at the shrine.
tsukinobe ishi(anzan ishi)--originally from the tsukushi region,legend says that empress jingu stroked this stone when delivering emperor ojin,and had an easy delivery,and the stone was dedicated to this shrine by an oracle of tsukuyomi no mikoto in the era of emperor jomei.
it is said to have a miraculous efficacy for easy delivery.
