atago-shinko faith
"atago-shinko faith" is a shinto faith about fire prevention,which originated at the atago-jinja shrine(kyoto city)enshrined on the top of mt.atago in kyoto city.
atago-jinja shrine on mt.atago was a hall for shugendo(japanese mountain asceticism-shamanism incorporating shinto and buddhist concepts)from long ago,and atago-shinko faith spread all over japan from the mid-edo period by shugendo practitioners gathering on mt.atago.
since the late middle ages,the god of atago was widely worshipped as a god of miraculous efficacy in fire prevention.
throughout japan,there are about 1,000 shrines across 43 municipalities that have 'atago' in their shrine names.
it's especially common in the tohoku region.
the honjibutsu(original buddhist divinity)of the god of atago during times of syncretism of shinto and buddhism was jizo bosatsu.
even today,the temple festival for atago is on the 24th of every month,which is the same for jizo.
currently,kagutsuchi is the enshrined deity.
since shogun jizo(military ksitigarbha)was the honjibutsu,it was worshipped not only as the god of fire prevention,but also as the god of martial arts.
among the people,religious associations called 'atago ko' were organized in various regions.
known as 'sennichi mairi' (one-thousand visits),a visit on august 1st will bring as many benefits as those of one thousand visits.
atago-jinja shrine(ukyo ward,kyoto city)--sohonsha(chief shrine)
atago-jinja shrine(yuzawa city,akita prefecture)
atago-jinja shrine(tendo city,yamagata prefecture)
atago-jinja shrine(taihaku ward,sendai city)
atago hanazono-jinja shrine(iwaki city,fukushima prefecture)
atago-jinja shrine(isezaki city,gunma prefecture)
atago-jinja shrine(minato ward,tokyo prefecture)
atago-jinja shrine(nerima ward,tokyo prefecture)
atago-jinja shrine(shirai city,chiba prefecture)
atago-jinja shrine(kameoka city,kyoto prefecture)-moto-atago(元愛宕)
atago-jinja shrine(nishi ward,fukuoka city)
atago-jinja shrine(mito city,ibaraki prefecture)
