yuki-jinja shrine
"yuki-jinja shrine" is a shrine in kurama-honmachi,sakyo ward,kyoto city.
it is the chinju-sha shrine(shinto shrine on buddhist temple grounds dedicated to the tutelary deity of the area)of kurama-dera temple.
commonly known as yukimyojin.
okuninushi and sukunabikona,collectively called 'yuki daimyojin,' are the main gods worshipped and enshrines hassho daimyojin as the aidono(enshrinement of two or more deities in one building of a shrine).
history
the enshrined deity originally was enshrined in the imperial court,but when a major earthquake and the tengyo war occurred in the capital,the shrine was transferred to the kurama region in 940 under imperial decree by the emperor of the time,emperor suzaku,and was commanded to guard the north.
the regular festival,kurama no hi-matsuri festival(kurama fire festival),stems from villagers welcoming the divine spirit with a bonfire during this event.
the shrine name 'yukimyojin' comes from the quiver(yuki)offered before god to pray for tranquility during an illness of the emperor or other national crisis.
at the gojoten-jinja shrine in the capital,government officials hung quivers on the shrine door as a symbol of 'banishment' to take responsibility in a national crisis,and according to "tsurezuregusa" (essays in idleness),similar things were done at the yuki-jinja shrine.
yuki-jinja shrine and gojoten-jinja shrine share the same enshrined deity.
compound
the main shrine and the front shrine were reconstructed by hideyori toyotomi.
the front shrine in particular is warihaiden(literally, "divided worship hall")-style momoyama architecture,and is designated as an important cultural property of japan.
subordinate shrines
sanpoko-jinja shrine
enshrined deity:sanpokojin---enshrined in this location from long ago as the god of fire and god of the cooking stove.
faith:the god of fire calamity
shironaga benzaiten-sha shrine
enshrined deity:saraswati(god of wealth,music,eloquence,and water)
kanja-sha shrine
enshrined deity:susanoo
faith:the god of thriving business
iwagami-sha shrine
enshrined deity:kotoshironushi,oyamatsumi
osugi-sha shrine
enshrined deity:sacred tree
faith:sacred cedar tree for shinto prayer
hachimangu-sha shrine
enshrined deity:hachiman(god of war)
cultural property
sacred tree of osugi-sha shrine-designated natural monument of kyoto city
front shrine(warihaiden)-important cultural property of japan
others
there is no entrance fee for this shrine and it can be entered free of charge,but since it is in the compound of kurama-dera temple, 'aizan ryo,' an entrance fee for kurama-dera temple,of 200 yen for high school students and older people(junior high school students and younger children are free,half price if one-day ticket for eizan rail is presented)is necessary.
