hoderi
hoderi is a god that appears in japanese mythology in the kojiki(the records of ancient matters).
he appears in the story of yamasachihiko and umisachihiko.
he is generally known as umisachihiko.
he is considered to be the ancestor,worshipped as a god,of ata no kimi of hayato.
description found in the mythology
he was a child of ninigi and konohana no sakuya-bime.
ninigi suspected that he was a child of kunitsukami(god of the land).
in order to disprove his suspicion konohana no sakuya-bime gave birth to three gods in fire,and hoderi was the oldest of the three.
he was named hoderi because he was born when the fire was burning fiercely and brightly.
hosuseri and hoori were his younger brothers.
he made his living by fishing.
one day,he exchanged his tools with his younger brother,hoori,who made his living by hunting.
however,hoori lost hoderi's fishing hook and hoderi would not forgive him.
hoori returned,after receiving from the sea god magical items and a method of revenge.
hoderi was tormented by hoori,and he submitted to hoori.
refer to yamasachihiko and umisachihiko for details.
explanation
according to the mythology, 'ho' in the name implies fire,but 'deri' means to 'shine,' and therefore it means ripening of the rice plant to a red color or burning fire that is shining brightly.
the story of yamasachihiko and umisachihiko tells about hayato's submission.
therefore,it is considered that hoderi was included in the genealogy for this purpose.
in the body of the text in nihonshoki(chronicles of japan),the ancestor that is worshipped as a god of hayato is said to be honosusori(hosuseri)no mikoto instead of hoderi.
in arufumi(supplement volumes of explanatory notes in nihonshoki)vol.8,all of hoderi's achievements mentioned in the kojiki are written as honosusori no mikoto's(hosuseri)accomplishments.
in addition,according to another section,it is stated that ninigi's eldest son was hosuseri.
therefore,the dominant theory is that hoderi is a god created by those who wrote the kojiki.
