kataku rokushin
kataku rokushin is a generic name for the six gods(shinto)representing(or protecting)a house in shinto.
kataku rokushin indicates the materials and structure of buildings.
all six gods were born as children of izanagi and izanami after ogotooshio-no-kami was born first during kamiumi(birth of the gods),after kuni-umi(the birth of(the land)of japan)in kojiki(the records of ancient matters).
iwatsuchibiko-no-kami
the first to be born was iwatsuchibiko-no-kami.
it represents the materials for a house,stones and soil(plaster).
iwasuhime-no-kami
the second was iwasuhime-no-kami.
iwasu means sand and stone,and since the former was a male god with 'biko,' it is believed that this was the goddess that made these gods a pair.
"koshi-den" describes that these two gods are the other name for uwatsutsunoo-no-kami.
"shinmeiko" describes that iwatsuchibiko-no-kami is the god of stones and iwasuhime-no-kami is the god of sand.
otohiwake-no-kami
the third was otohiwake-no-kami.
oto' is the entrance/exit of a house.
the gender is unknown.
in "kojikiden" (commentaries on the kojiki),it is described as a god confused with naobi no kami.
"shinmeiko" describes that it is one of the gods of gates.
amenofukio-no-kami
the fourth is amenofukio-no-kami.
fuki' describes the movement of thatching the roof.
in "kojikiden," it is interpreted as the same god as ibukidonushi appearing in oharae no kotoba,due to its name.
in "shinmeiko," it is the god of rooftops.
oyabiko no kami
oyabiko no kami,who was the fifth to be born,represents the roof that has been thatched.
the shinmei(name of god)comes from 'oaya,' which means 'major disaster,' with the 'a' removed,and it is the same god as magatsuhi no kami(evil gods),the god of disaster.
it appears in the mythology of okuninushi(chief god of izumo in southern honshu island,japan,and the central character in the important cycle of myths set in that region),and is considered a different god from 'oyabiko no kami,' which is another name for isotakerunokami.
kazamotsuwakenooshio-no-kami
the last to be born was kazamotsuwakenooshio-no-kami.
according to its shinmei,this god is believed to have been placed at the end of kataku rokushin as a god related to wind,or god protecting the house from storm wind.
however,with regards to god of wind,there is shinatsuhiko born later,so some say 'kaza' of kazamotsuwakenooshio-no-kami is simply a substitute character,and it is not a god of wind.
regarding its reading,it is written 'use on(chinese reading)for木' in the original note,so it is read 'mo,' but it is rare to use japanese pronunciation of a kanji(based on adopted chinese pronunciations)in shinmei.
in "kojikiden," it is described that this note was mistakenly inserted later,and that it is read 'kazaketsuwakeoshiwo.'
additionally,in "kojikiden," it is considered the same god as sokotsutsuo-no-kami,or hayasasura-hime from oharae no kotoba.
