daishogun(hoi-jin)
"daishogun" (commander-in-chief)is one of the hasshojin(of eight general gods)responsible for the fortune of directions in onmyodo(the way of yin and yang;occult divination based upon the taoist theory of the five elements).
in ancient china,the morning star was called keimei and the evening star was called choko or taihaku,and were considered the star gods responsible for military affairs,adopted by onmyodo in japan and became taihakujin,konjin,and daishogun.
all were star gods related to venus,representing knives in gogyo-setsu(the theory of the five elements),which made them feared as araburu kami(malignant gods)in terms of the almanac and orientation.
daishogun changes location every three years,and the direction was considered bad luck for everything,especially activities involving soil.
since the direction of the daishogun does not change for three years,to dread that direction was referred to as 'sannen fusagari' (blocked for three years).
however,yugyo bi(day of wandering)for daishogun was set,and misfortune would not occur during that time.
the direction depending upon the year,based on the 12 signs of the chinese zodiac,is as follows.
year of the boar,rat(12 signs of chinese zodiac),and ox-west
year of the tiger,hare,and dragon-north
year of the serpent,horse,and ram-east
year of the monkey,bird,and dog-south
the yugyo bi are as follows.
doyo(last 18 days of the season)of spring(before the first day of summer):kinoene no hi-tsuchinoetatsu no hi(wanders to the east)
doyo of summer(before the first day of fall):hinoene no hi-kanoetatsu no hi(wanders to the south)
doyo of fall(before the first day of winter):kanoene no hi-kinoetatsu no hi(wanders to the west)
doyo of winter(before the first day of spring):mizunoene no hi-hinoetatsu no hi(wanders to the north)
daishogun was considered to be the son of gozu tenno(deity said to be the indian god gavagriva),and was equated with susanoo.
(however,gozu tenno later synchronized with susanoo.)
in kyoto,emperor kanmu placed daishogun-jinja shrines enshrining daishogun in four directions,immediately after relocating the capital to heian-kyo(ancient kyoto).
east okazaki,sakyo ward
west kamiyagawa,kamigyo ward
north daitokujimonmae,kita ward,kyoto city
south location unknown
however,their current locations are as follows.
these now enshrine susanoo.
east higashisanjo taishogun-jinja shrine in higashiyama ward.
west daishogunhachi-jinja shrine in kamigyo ward.
north imamiya-jinja shrine(kyoto city),sessha eki-jinja shrine,and nishigamo taishogun-jinja shrine in kita ward.
south premises of fujimori-jinja shrine in fushimi ward.
additionally,gion-sha shrine(yasaka-jinja shrine)also enshrines daishogun.
daishogun also remains as geographical names in kita ward(kyoto city).
recent examples
in april 2000,television and magazines reported news on many households rejecting sewer work in yamagata city,resulting in delay.
the number one reason for rejecting the work was 'economic reasons' and the second most common reason was 'daishogun.'
year 2000 was the year of the dragon,and daishogun was in the north,which resulted in delays in work due to many residents having bathrooms and restrooms in the north side of their homes.
this proves that in this country,katatagae jujutsu(witchcraft for changing directions to avoid bad luck)remains strong even when the twenty-first century is just around the corner.
