ninigi
ninigi(amenigishi kuninigishi amatsuhiko hiko hononinigi)is a deity in japanese mythology.
in kojiki(the records of ancient matters),ninigi is referred to as "ame nigishi kuni nigishi amatsuhiko hiko hononinigi" (spelled as "天邇岐志国邇岐志天津日高日子番能邇邇芸命"), "ame nigishi" ("天邇岐志"), "kuni nigishi" ("国邇岐志"),or "amatsuhiko" ("天日高日子"),whereas in nihonshoki(chronicles of japan),he is mentioned as "ame nigishi kuni nigishi amatsuhitaka hiko hono ninigi no mikoto" ("天饒石国鐃石天津日高彦火瓊瓊杵尊"), "amatsuhidaka hikono hono ninigi no mikoto" ("天津日高彦瓊瓊杵尊"),or "hono ninigi no mikoto" ("彦火瓊瓊杵" or "火瓊瓊杵").
generally,he is called "ninigi no mikoto" (spelled as "瓊瓊杵尊" or "瓊々杵尊").
mythology
he was a son of oshihomimi,a son of amaterasu(the sun goddess),and takuhatachijihime no mikoto(also called "yorozuhatatoyoakitsushihime no mikoto"),a daughter of takamimusubi.
ame no hoakari was his elder brother.
according to a different theory cited in the nihonshoki,ninigi was a son of the deity ame no hoakari.
ninigi is believed to have descended from takamanohara(the vast realm in heaven where deities resided)at the order of the goddess amaterasu,his grandmother,to rule ashihara no nakatsukuni(literally, "the central land of reed plains," which was the human world).
this is called tensonkorin(the sun goddess's grandson's descent to earth).
according to the kojiki,ninigi 'descended from heaven at kujifurutake,kakaho in hyuga,tsukushi.'
in nihonshoki,he is said to have descended from heave at the 'himuka no so no takachiho no mine' (literally,the peak of takachiho in himuka)or 'tsukushi no himuka no takachiho' (literally,takachiho,himuka,tsukushi).
many scholars agree that ninigi,who descended to the peak of takachiho in hyuga province,eventually reached kasasa no misaki in nagaya in ata province(currently minami-satsuma city).
but some consider that ninigi might have descended to 'hyuga in tsukushi province,' not 'hyuga province' established at a later time,partly because both the kojiki and nihonshoki mention the location of his descent as 'tsukushi' (spelled as '竺紫' or '筑紫' in the kojiki and '筑紫' in nihonshoki),and partly because the region included in hyuga province in the seventh century had previously been part of kumaso province.
ninigi married konohanano sakuya bime,the daughter of the deity oyamatsumi,and had three sons:hoderi(umisachi,literally, "sea treasures"),hosuseri,and hoori(yamasachi,literally, "mountain products").
the grandson of hoori is emperor jinmu,the first emperor of japan.
when he died,he was buried in 'enoyama no misasagi' (literally, 'imperial tomb in mt.eno').
comments
part of his name, 'ame nigishi kuni nigishi,' means that heaven and earth are affluent and lively.
amatsuhiko' means the deities amatsukami and 'hiko' means male.
hono ninigi' means a good rice harvest.
ninigi' means 'lively' and has the same root as 'nigiyaka,' which means 'bustling or busy.'
deities such as ame no oshihomimi no mikoto,hoderi,hosuseri,and hoori mentioned earlier,who are considered to be ninigi's relatives in mythology,commonly contain the sound of 'ho' in their names.
ho' signifies rice.
ninigi is worshipped as a deity of agriculture,and is enshrined in many shrines,including kirishima-jingu shrine(kirishima city,kagoshima prefecture),takachiho-jinja shrine(takachiho town,nishi usuki county,miyazaki prefecture),nitta-jinja shrine(satsumasendai city,kagoshima prefecture),and tsukudo-jinja shrine(chiyoda ward,tokyo prefecture).
although there are several sites in southern kyushu that are believed to be 'hyuga no enoyama no misasagi,' ninigi's burial place,the imperial household agency has officially declared that ninigi was buried in nitta-jinja shrine in satsumasendai city.
nitta-jinja shrine came under the direct control of the imperial household agency in 1914,
the imperial tomb precinct covers four fifths of mt.shinki,where the shrine is located.
currently,the eno division of the momoyama regional office,archives and mausolea department of the imperial household agency is located within the precinct of the shrine and an official of the cabinet office administers the tomb as a guardian.
imperial tombs that are part of a shinto shrine are rare.
this imperial family have visited the shrine on nine occasions.
this imperial family have visited the shrine on nine occasions,including in march 30,1920,emperor showa visited the temple when he was the imperial prince,and in 1962,then imperial prince kinjo(later emperor kinjo)visited with crown princess michiko(later empress michiko).
