chokusai-sha shrine
"the chokusai-sha shrine" is a shrine where festivals are attended by imperial messengers sent by the emperor(called chokusai).
however,ise jingu shrine's godai-matsuri festival(except for the tsukinami-sai festival)is treated separately,and,therefore,it is not called a chokusai-sha shrine,even though imperial messengers are sent every year.
chokusai-sha shrines existed from long ago,and most notable were the nijuni-sha shrines in the kyoto area.
modern chokusai-sha shrines were introduced in 1868,when emperor meiji held a festival in hikawa-jinja shrine as chokusai.
in 1870,twelve shrines in tokyo and neighboring areas were designated as junchokusai-sha shrines(hie-jinja shrine,nezu-jinja shrine,shibashinmei-gu shrine,kanda-jinja shrine,hakusan-jinja shrine,kameido-jinja shrine,shinagawa kibune-sha shrine,tomioka hachiman-jinja shrine,oji-jinja shrine,akasaka hikawa-jinja shrine,rokusho-jinja shrine,sagiinomiya-jinja shrine),but this was temporary.
the beginning of chokusai-sha shrines was in 1883,when the kamo-matsuri festival and the iwashimizu-matsuri festival at kamo-jinja shrine(kamomioya-jinja shrine,kamowakeikazuchi-jinja shrine)and iwashimizu hachiman-gu shrine were designated as chokusai.
their numbers have increased since then,and by the end of the war(1945),the following shrines were chokusai-sha shrines.
(shrine names and name of their locations today.
shikinai' refers to shikinai-sha(shrine listed in the engishiki(list of official shrines))(myojin refers to myojin-taisha shrine), 'ichinomiya' refers to the ichinomiya(shrine with the highest ranking in the area)of the province, 'beppyo' indicates the classification between beppyo-jinja shrine and tanritsu)
currently,there are sixteen chokusai-sha shrines,excluding the chosen-jingu shrine,which closed when the war ended.
among these,imperial messengers are sent every ten years to usa-jingu shrine and kashii-gu shrine,every six years to kashima-jingu shrine and katori-jingu shrine,and to the grand festival in spring and autumn at the yasukuni-jinja shrine.
