hayaakitsuhiko and hayaakitsuhime
hayaakitsuhiko and hayaakitsuhime are kami(god)in japanese methodology(shinto).
the kanji used for hayaakitsuhiko and hayaakitsuhime are速秋津比古神and速秋津比売神,respectively,in kojiki(the records of ancient matters);速秋津日命(hayaakitsuhinomikoto)in nihonshoki(chronicles of japan).
in the kojiki,it is stated that hayaakitsuhiko and hayaakitsuhime are also known as minato no kami.
hayaakitsuhiko and hayaakitsuhime are a god and goddess pair who were born between izanagi and izanami in the section of kamiumi(bearing gods between izanagi and izanami)in the japanese methodology.
minato no kami is a collective term for them.
according to the volume 6 of an "alternate writing" transmitted by nihonshoki, 'gods at the water gates are called hayaakitsuhinomikoto.'
in kojiki,it is said that following four pairs(eight in total)gods and goddess were born between hayaakitsuhiko and hayaakitsuhime.
all of them are related to water.
awanagi no kami and awanami no kami
tsuranagi no kami and tsuranami no kami
amenomikumari no kami and kuninomikumari no kami
amenokuhizamochi no kami and kuninokuhizamochi no kami
also,kushiyatama no kami who became a kashiwade(cook)in the palace(izumo-taisha shrine)constructed for okuninushi(chief god of izumo in southern honshu island,japan,and the central character in the important cycle of myths set in that region),who agreed to a kuniyuzuri(transfer of the land)in the section of ashihara no nakatsukuniheitei in the japanese methodology,was described to be the grandchild of minato no kami.
minato no kami means god of sea port.
since port was constructed at the mouth of a river in ancient times,minato no kami is also god for a river mouth.
from the image of running impurities in a river,minato no kami is also regarded as a god for warding off evil fortune.
haya' in the names of hayaakitsuhiko and hayaakitsuhime implies the speed of the water in the river or the current in the ocean.
also,the names of the god and goddess are considered to have originated from the fact that the use of the river mouth depends on the speed of the current.
on the other hand, 'akitsu' in the names of the god and goddess is thought to mean that misogi(purification ceremony)purifies things quickly and clearly.
according to the oharae no kotoba(the words of the great purification),sins and impurities run into the ocean by seoritsuhime no kami who lives at the upstream of a river were swallowed down by a 'god called hayaakitsuhime who sits at the place where various power and current gather and things go under purification.'
