kenji(divine sword and jewel)
kenji is the term used when combining the ame no murakumo no tsurugi(literally "heavenly sword of assembled clouds")and the yasakani no magatama(comma-shaped jewel),two of the sanshu no jingi(three sacred treasures of the imperial family).
the jewel of the imperial treasures is referred to as the 'ji' of 'kenji' (or 'shinji' meaning 'divine jewel').
today,the divine sword(considered to be a replica of the ame no murakumo no tsurugi)and the divine jewel(considered to be the genuine yasakani no magatama)are placed in the 'kenji room' next to the emperor's bedroom in the imperial palace.
the divine mirror(a replica of the yata no kagami)is enshrined as a shintai(an object of worship housed in a shinto shrine and believed to contain the spirit of a deity)of the three shrines in the imperial court.
kenji-doza(the transport of the kenji)
before world war ii,a chamberlain accompanying the emperor would carry the divine sword and jewel when the emperor left the imperial palace to travel for two or more days.
this is referred to as kenji-doza.
although kenji-doza has been performed a number of times since the end of world war ii as well,it occurs infrequently.
the emperor visited ise-jingu shrine with the divine sword and jewel after his enthronement.
kenji togyo no gi(the succession ceremony of the kenji)
kenji togyo no gi is performed when the emperor abdicates the throne or passes away and the imperial heir accedes the throne.
it is a succession ceremony to transfer the divine sword and jewel to the new emperor as symbol of the imperial throne.
since the sword and the jewel are considered sacred objects,they are considered to move to the new emperor on their own,so the expression used is 'togyo' (an honorific term for 'transfer' of gods or emperors).
according to the imperial accession law(1909 imperial household law no.1),which was abolished after world war ii,the divine sword and jewel were to be 'served' and 'transferred' by a chamberlain in the ceremony,while the great seal and imperial seal were to be held by a secretary of the minister of the palace and placed on a table in front of the emperor.
in this ceremony,however,the divine mirror is not transferred since it is a sacred object of the kashikodokoro(the sanctuary)of the three shrines in the imperial court.
at the kashikodokoro, 'kashikodokoro no gi' (ceremony in the sanctuary in the imperial palace)is performed at the same time as 'kenji togyo no gi' to inform the gods of the completed enthronement.
on january 7,1989,when akihito succeeded the throne,the ceremony was referred to as 'the ceremony of the kenji and others' in accordance with the principle of separation of religion and state.
soon after the succession to the imperial throne,a brief ceremony was performed in the main hall of matsu(pine)of the imperial palace where the chamberlain placed the sword,the jewel,the great seal and the imperial seal on a table in front of the new emperor.
this ceremony was broadcasted on television.
