sengu
a sengu is the temporary transfer of a shintai(an object of worship housed in a shinto shrine and believed to contain the spirit of a deity).
sengu is conducted when the honden(main building)of a shrine is being built and repaired or when a new honden is being constructed.
it refers to the construction,repair and reconstruction of the honden as well as its rites and festivals.
shosengu is a planned sengu.
a karidono sengu is the transfer to a tentative building when a honden needs unexpected repair or reconstruction due to a natural disaster or other catastrophe.
a rinji sengu is an extraordinary transfer,in which the same rituals are conducted as in a shosengu in order to transfer shintai to a newly built honden due to unforeseen circumstances.
sometimes,the sengu is classified as described above.
the term "sengu" often refers to the jingu shikinen sengu of ise-jingu shrine(ise city,mie prefecture).
at all other shrines,sengu is sometimes differentiated from the concept of senza.
the main buildings of both the shogu(main shrine)and betsugu(auxiliary associated shrines)of ise-jingu shrine are in general subject to regular rebuilding efforts every 20 years;such renewals are called "shikinen sengu."
the word "shikinen," when used in the context,means a fixed year.
sengu used to be conducted at sumiyoshi-taisha shrine(sumiyoshi ward,osaka city),katori-jingu shrine,kashima-jingu shrine,usa-jingu shrine,kasuga-taisha shrine and suwa-taisha shrine(ï¼>onbashira-sai festival).
yet the main building of sumiyoshi-taisha shrine has not been rebuilt since 1810,merely repaired on the occasion of the transfer of its shintai to a temporary structure.
however,the term shikinen sengu is still in use today.
(the main building of sumiyoshi-taisha shrine has been designated as a national treasure,so it can't be reconstructed.)
shikinen sengu is considered to be part of shiki nen sai(religious festivals held on fixed years).
small shrines also conduct sengu,as exemplified by shinmei-jinja shrine in ago-cho,shima city,mie prefecture,which has conducted a sengu every 20 years since 1764 in the mid-edo period.
