seven shikobuchi
seven shikobuchi' means major seven shrines which enshrine 'shikobuchi gods,' which are the gods of belief native to ado-gawa river basin,runs kyoto prefecture and shiga prefecture.
every shrine of seven has the legend of gawataro(kappa,a water sprite).
shikobuchi' was written as思子淵、志古渕、信興淵,and so on.
seven shikobuchi
kuta shikobuchi-jinja shrine(kyoto city)
kuta shikobuchi-jinja shrine is enshrined in kuta,sakyo ward,kyoto city,kyoto prefecture.
hanagasa odori(flowered hat dance)was designated as intangible cultural properties.
ogawa,shikobuchi-jinja shrine
ogawa,shikobuchi-jinja shrine is enshrined in ogawa,kutsuki-mura,takashima city,shiga prefecture.
this shrine holds shikobuchi-ko(shikobuchi beneficial activities)that people arrange for a place to stay by turns every year and gather together to hang a scroll of the god(the character 'shikobuchi-jinja shrine' was written)on tokonoma(alcove in a traditional japanese room where art or flowers are displayed)and make an offering to it,then cook festive red rice and eat meal together.
this shrine has daihannyakyo(great perfection of wisdom sutra),and all of them are designated as cultural properties.
sakashita,shikobuchi damimyojin shrine
sakashita,shikobuchi damimyojin shrine is enshrined in katsuragawasakashita-cho,otsu city,shiga prefecture.
daimyojin is enshrined in a small hokora(a small shrine)on the great stone.
bomura,shikobuchi daimyojin shrine
bomura,shikobuchi daimyojin shrine is enshrined in katsuragawabomura-cho,otsu city,shiga prefecture.
it is enshrined as a shrine in precinct of jishu-jinja shrine.
this shrine has the tradition related to foundation of katsuragawa myoo-in temple.
the shrine in precinct on the observers' right is shikobuchi-jinja shrine.
umenoki,shikobuchi-jinja shrine
uminoki,shikobuchi-jinja shrine is enshrined in umenoki-cho,otsu city,shiga prefecture.
until recent years,october 7th on the lunar calendar was a feast day.
iwase,shikobuchi-jinja shrine
iwase,shikobuchi-jinja shrine is enshrined in kutsukiiwase,takashima city,shiga prefecture.
the god of shikobuchi is enshrined as 'the god of ikada-nagashi(floating bound timber downstream)and shikobuchi-ko is held every year.
nakano shikobuchi-jinja shrine.
this shrine is enshrined in nakano,adgawa-cho,takashima city,shiga prefecture
this shrine has legend of gawatro.
