shingu
"shingu" refers to tools or utensils used for shinto religious services.
wooden ones are often made of plain wood,and others are often made of metal(brass)or white earthenware.
main shingu
the shingu listed here are the main ones,and depending on the shrine(shrine of the ujigami(a guardian god or spirit of a particular place in the shinto religion)or the shrine of worship)and sect shinto school,some things are necessary/unnecessary,so seek the advice of shrines,churches of sect shinto school,and shingu stores(butsugu(buddhist altar fittings)stores carrying shingu).
kamidana(a household shinto altar)
they are often hung from the ceiling,high on the wall,or built using the kamoi(a generic term for a head jamb,normally have tracks for sliding doors or partitions),facing south or east.
when kamidana cannot be built,it is sometimes built using the top of tansu(chest of drawers).
miyagata
it is built imitating the architecture of the main building of a shinto shrine(honden(main hall)),and is generally made with plain wood.
other than the issha zukuri(one shrine),sansha zukuri(three shrines),and nanasha zukuri(seven shrines),there are shinmei tsukuri(style of shrine architecture based on that of ise-jingu shrine)and hakomiya(box shrine),which looks like a shrine in a box.
in normal homes,issha zukuri or sansha zukuri miyagata are commonly used.
regarding the enshrinement of the talisman(taima(amulet)),in issha zukuri,the talisman of ise-jingu shrine(amaterasu-kotaijingu shrine)is enshrined at the very front,and then the talisman of the ujigami-jinja shrine and the talisman of the shrine routinely worshipped,in this order.
in sansha zukuri,the talisman(taima)of ise-jingu shrine is enshrined in the center,and the talisman of the ujigami-jinja shrine to the right,and the talisman of the shrine routinely worshipped to the left.
shimenawa(sacred rice-straw ropes)
it is a rope made of rice straw with four shide(chain of cut white paper suspended from the straw rope marking off a sacred area of a shinto shrine)suspended and attached to the upper area of the kamidana.
shinkyo(divine mirror)
it is a round thin mirror,generally used along with a base for supporting the mirror.
sanho(a stand to place offerings)(shinto)
a base made of plain wood used to offer food and alcohol offering to the gods,sacred wine,sake,and water.
jingi(the sacred treasures)
a bowl for offering water,salt,or sacred wine or sake to the gods,often made of white earthenware.
rice and salt:
hiraka clay vessel
sacred wine or sake:
wine bottle
water:
water bowl
tomyo(light offered to god)
tomyo plate or candlestand with legs made of three combined sticks are used.
sakaki(species of evergreen sacred to shinto)stand
a flower vase made of earthenware for offering sakaki and a grid made of plain wood or earthenware are often used as a set.
soreisha(mitamaya,shintodan alter)
while kamidana enshrines god,this enshrines the ancestral spirits of households.
reiji(spirit vessel)
corresponding to ihai(ancestral tablets)in buddhism,it is considered the yorishiro(object representative of a divine spirit)of the spirit of the deceased,and is generally made of plain wood.
as with ihai,some are made individually for each of the deceased,while other reiji are for several deceased,as with kuridashi-ihai.
furthermore,unlike ihai,reiji has a cover for covering the reiji.
other shingu
an table
mainly used in shinto events(weddings and ground-breaking ceremonies),it is a table made of plain wood.
it usually has four legs on each side,and is used as a table to place tamagushi(branch of a sacred tree),food and alcohol offering to the gods,etc.
onusa(a wooden wand used in shinto rituals)(taima)
hitogata(person of straw),katashiro(paper doll used in shinto purification rites)
suzu(bell),kagurasuzu(bell for kagura(shinto music and dance numbers))
torii(an archway to a shinto shrine)
