mito-jinja shrine
"mito-jinja shrine" is a shrine in teradamitosaka,joyo city,kyoto prefecture.
its at the foot of mount konosu-yama.
this shrine is described as 'kuze no gun mito no kunitsuyashiro' in the lost writings of "yamashiro no kuni fudoki," suggesting that it existed in the nara period,when the fudoki was compiled.
first enshrinement is believed to be in the early heian period.
in the engishiki(list of official shrines),which was established in the first half of the heian period,it is listed as 'mito-jinja shrine sanza.'
it advanced to a township shrine in 1873,a village shrine in 1882,and a prefectural shrine in 1907.
currently,shrine ranking has been abolished,and it now belongs to the jinja-honcho(the association of shinto shrines)under the name 'religious corporation,mito-jinja shrine.'
the main shrine,which is designated as a cultural property of japan,is ryuzohafu yoshiki rich in variation,with one ken(counter used to number the gaps between pillars)on the front side and two kens on the sides,the roof is a cypress bark roof with a large chidori hafu in the front.
additionally,in the center of the eave,there is a transom decorated with fretwork of arabesque along with bamboo leaves and gentian,creating a simple but elegant building.
according to the ridge tag with the history of the shrine inscribed,it was built in 1448,and is the oldest building in joyo city.
enshrined deity
its enshrined deities are the following guardian deities of the former terada village:amaterasu sume omikami,takami musubi no kami,and wadatsumitoyotamahime no mikoto.
festivals
reitaisai(regularly held festival)
from september 30 to october 2 annually
welcoming the god in the 'oide' on september 30,is performed as an orderly parade starting at the otabi(place where the sacred palanquin is lodged during a festival),mainly by children and shino,with the order and allotment predefined for equipment used in the festival.
on the night of 'yomiya' (eve of a festival vigil)on october 1,the shrine maiden sprinkles hot water from the tetsuyugama(iron pot)before the god using bamboo leaves,and 'yutateshinji' is performed,praying for safety.
in the 'matsuri' on october 2,the parade sends the god off to the shrine.
okage-odori dance
at the mito-jinja shrine,kyoto prefecture's registered cultural property, 'okage odorizu ema,' remains.
on the ema(votive picture),a scene of the okage-odori dance presented to mito-jinja shrine by the people of hokuto town,terada village on november 1,1830,is drawn.
even today,it is being revived and handed down to subsequent generations by the local 'okage-odori hozonkai' (okage-odori dance preservation group),and the dance is presented at the mito-jinja shrine.
in joyo city,the dance took place after every event until the beginning of showa era around the terada and aoya regions.
even today,it is being revived and handed down to subsequent generations by the local 'okage-odori hozonkai' (okage-odori dance preservation group),and the dance is presented at the mito-jinja shrine.
other cultural properties
tetsuyugama' and 'daihannyakyo' (the great perfection of wisdom sutra)at the mito-jinja shrine are designated cultural properties of joyo city.
tetsuyugama' is believed to have been used for yutateshinji,and was made in 1425 according to the inscription.
the 'daihannyakyo,' which comes in 601 volumes and 'kyobako nanahako' (seven boxes for the sutras),is a hand-copied sutra dating back to the early kamakura period,and is a valuable source for learning the history of faith in villages.
(entrusted to the rekishi minzoku shiryokan(history and folklore museum)in teradaimabori)
sando(road approaching a shrine)
ichi no torii' (the first gate)stands along the former yamato-kaido street,about 200 meters south of the joyo jr station.
from there,the main building of the mito-jinja shrine is about 600 meters to the east via the 'ni no torii' (the second gate)at the foot of mount konosu-yama.
the sando is a gentle ascent to the shrine.
there used to be teashops along the sando,busy with visitors.
the sando is more or less at the center of the city,but on both sides of the sando are rows of old pine trees,and the area around the shrine is a chinquapin forest with some red pines,and thus,mito-jinja shrine and the row of pine trees on the sando were selected as '200 selected kyoto treasures of nature,' for maintaining a rich natural environment while the surroundings became a residential area.
access
1 km east of the nara joyo jr station lin,north of kyoto prefectural joyo high school.
