shimotsukenu no kuninomiyatsuko
shimotsukenu no kuninomiyatsuko(also known as shimotsukenukokuzo,shimotsukeno no kunimomiyatsuko,and shimotsukenokokuzo)was kuninomiyatsuko(local ruling families in ancient japan)ruled shimotsuke province.
this post was originally kenu no kuninomiyatsuko,which was divided into kamitsukenu no kuninomiyatsuko and shimotsukenu no kuninomiyatsuko during the period from the reign of emperor nintoku to the reign of emperor kotoku.
summary
ancestor
according to "nihonshoki," toyokiiruhiko no mikoto,who was a prince of emperor sujin and ordered to rule togoku,was the ancestor of kamitsukenu no kuninomiyatsuko and shimotsukenu no kuninomiyatsuko.
it is said that hikosashima no miko,a grandson of toyokiiruhiko no mikoto,was appointed tosando jugokoku totoku during the reign of emperor keiko,and his son mimorowake no kimi succeeded him and governed well.
according to "nihonshoki," narawake,the fourth descendant from toyokiiruhiko no mikoto,was appointed shimotsuke no kunimiyatsuko.
clan
the shimotsuke clan.
kabane was kimi.
the clan was conferred on asomi in 684,the 13th year of the reign of emperor tenmu.
in 783,the family name 'shimotsukenu' was given to the surrendered emishi.
base
shimotsuke no kuni.
present tochigi prefecture.
local tutelar deity
the futarasan-jinja shrine:nikko city,tochigi prefecture.
the enshrined deities are futarayama no ookami.
ichinomiya in shimotsuke province.
the futaarayama-jinja shrine:utsunomiya city,tochigi prefecture.
the enshrined deities are toyokiirihiko no mikoto and others.
ichinomiya in shimotsuke province.
the akagi-jinja shrine:sano city,tochigi prefecture.
the enshrined deity is hikosashima no miko.
descendants
shimotsukenu no komaro:a government official during the asuka period.
he compiled the taihoritsuryo code with osakabe no miko,fujiwara no fuhito,and awata no mahito.
shimotsukenu no mushimaro:a scholar during the nara period.
he was shikibuingaisho.
he was a good writer.
shimotsukenu no toshitugu:a government official during the heian period.
he was yakkonotsukasa.
junior fifth rank,upper grade.
shimotsukenu no kintada:a warrior during the heian period.
he was konoe no toneri.
he served fujiwara no yorimichi as a guard.
