heian cavalry
heian cavalry(heian kibatai)is the cavalry of the kyoto prefectural police.
it was founded in 1994 to commemorate the 1200th anniversary of the relocation of the capital to heian-kyo(ancient kyoto).
history
1921
mounted police officers were deployed at the kyoto prefectural police department.
however,they disappeared 10 years after 1945.
1994
on february 10,the hean cavalry was founded
at first the kyoto racetrack was its main base of activity.
1997
the facilities for the heian cavalry were constructed in the ikoi no mori(forest of relaxation)of takaragaike park,moving its base there in october.
main horses belonging to the heian cavalry
many of the horses belonging to the heian cavalry were thoroughbreds that were ex-race horses.
the names of the horses were taken from the names of locations in kyoto.
kasagi
the old name is biko alpha.
the horse is male and its hair color is dark bay.
his father was rivlia,his mother was kuriremon,and his mother's father was indiana.
he was born april 24,1990 at the hasegawa farm in hokkaido.
in the former competitive system of japanese horseracing and belonging to the yukiharu shikato stable of the japan racing association,he won the fuji stakes of the open tokubetsu jidai and ran well in big prize horse races,ranked 2nd in the keio hai spring cup and came in 2nd in the keisei hai autumn handicap.
his record as a racehorse was 7 wins out of 58 races.
after retiring,he became the lead horse at the hanshin racetrack.
in july 2007 he retired from being a lead horse and changed his name to kasachi and joined the cavalry.
daimonji
his former name was osumi gian.
the horse is male and its hair color is bay.
his father's name was northern taste,his mother was begonia,and his mother's father was plagudonikuru.
on may 20,1994 he was born on a northern farm in hokkaido.
his racing results were 3 wins out of 15 races,and he ranked 4th at the aoba sho in 1997.
kurama
his former name was springtime.
color;chestnut.
he was born in 1989.
oe
his former name was erimonobuo.
male,color;grey.
his father's name was shakapool,his mother was erimogyallop,his mother's father was geisan.
on may 8,1990,he was born at the erimo farm of hokkaido.
his race results were 0 win out of 5.
after retiring he was the lead horse at the kyoto race track.
ogura
his former name was hayprest
color;grey
born in 1988
atago
his former name was inzapink.
color;roan.
born in 1985.
