kotaiyoriai
kotaiyoriai(交代寄合)is one instance of having hatamoto(a direct retainer of a shogun)family status within the edo bakufu(japanese feudal government headed by a shogun).
in a broad sense,the status was the same as a high-ranking retainer(hatamoto yoriaiseki)that also meant being a direct vassal of the shogun.
unlike hatamoto yoriaiseki who had continuous residence in edo,kotaiyoriai participated in a system called sankinkotai which obligated feudal lords to reside in edo every other year to show their loyalty to the shogunate.
summary
the term kotaiyoriai appeared in bukan(a book of heraldry),published for the first time in 1703.
it is reported that among kotaiyoriai members,twenty families were given a special high rank called omotemuki onreishu between 1736 and 1740.
although the stipend for a kotaiyoriai was less than ten thousand koku(crop yields),they were treated as "taishin hatamoto" (hatamoto with high rank and high yields)and permitted to practice sankinkotai like daimyo feudal lords.
while hatamotoyoriai(hatamoto meetings)were dominated by wakadoshiyori(a managerial position in edo bakufu),kotaiyoriai meetings were lead by the roju(members of the shogun's council of elders).
even though kotaiyoriai used the same anteroom seats(shikoseki)in edo-jo castle as feudal lords and direct retainers of the shogun,they held no official position in the government.
all retainers were paid a yoriai oyakukin(stipend)in lump sum twice a year in february and august at a proportion of two units of ryo(unit of gold currency)for each 100 koku(crop yield).
kotaiyoriai members were composed of local ruling families with a long and distinguished history,branch families of daimyo feudal lords,successors to a daimyo family name thus undergoing a change in rank,etc.
before meeting the shogun in edo-jo castle,kotaiyoriai enjoyed the same treatment as daimyo feudal lords and were designated shikoseki(anteroom seats)in a room called "teikan no ma" with paintings of famous chinese emperors,or in a room meant for middle-rank warriors with paintings of willows called "yanagi no ma,"
aside from a few cases,kotaiyoriai did not have an official rank unless they were appointed one,the same as any other hatamoto retainer.
composition of kotaiyoriai in the early 1800s:
other than those listed below,there were also families which served as kotaiyoriai at an earlier time(a few cases are noted at the end of the section).
list of kotaiyoriai
*according to the 1816 version of the "bukan" book of heraldry by suharaya(a famous publisher in the edo period).
omote onreishu(twenty family with a special high rank among kotaiyoriai)
shishu(four categories of buddhists or buddhist priests)
nasushu
minoshu
inashu
mikawashu
families who received the same treatment as shishu
others
*families not listed in the suharaya version.
families who received the same treatment as shishu
cases of families that served as kotaiyoriai at an earlier time.
the following families are presumed to have served as kotaiyoriai but have not been authenticated.
among others.
