yoriki(a governmental post in the edo bakufu)
yoriki was a typical governmental post in the edo bakufu.
yoriki(与力)was sometimes written as寄騎,but the meaning of与力and that of寄騎depended on the era.
before the edo period,in order to organize sonae(back-up army),this term was also used for indicating a middle-class samurai,such as a head of ashigaru(foot soldiers)having themsleves under the control of an influential samurai.
in the medieval period
in the kamakura period,both与力and寄騎were used simply refer to back-up soldiers,but later,these terms came to be more often used for indicating the lower-class samurai who followed daimyo or influential millitary commanders.
in the sengoku period(period of warring states)(in japan),these terms were often used for indicating "yori-ko" (寄子,where子indicates a child)(寄子＝local territory owners for influential military commanders(yori-oya:寄親where親indicates a parent)),not indicating lower-class samurai but local territoy owners.
it was not rare that these territoty owners possessed land worth several thousand kanmon(kanmon:monetary unit at that time).
furthermore,there were the yoriki-daimyo who were subordinated by a larger daimyo to reinforce his power.
as a typical such example,toshiie maeda was subordinated by katsuie shibata.
daimyo in the sengoku period racked their brains to prevent rebellion,considering that,when yori-ko(寄騎・寄子),territory owners were allowed to be integrated into yori-oya(寄親),the power of the yori-oya could become too big..
therefore,the daimyo in the sengoku period,who led yori-oya,did not make these territory owners(yori-ko)retainers of their retainers but their direct retainers,and then made the yori-ko subordinated by their senior vassals or influential military commanders(yori-oya)to use the military power of the local territory owners effectively.
in particular,these tactics were often seen in the gohojo clan,the imagawa clan,and the uesugi clan.
in the early-modern times
in the edo bakufu,yoriki were posted together with doshin(officers under yoriki)to assist their senior officers..
in particular,machi-kata yoriki under machi-bugyo(the post in charge of townspeople's affairs or officers in the post)was famous,assisted machi-bugyo,and played the functions of administration,judicature,and police.
in addition to ordinary yoriki who belonged to bugyo-sho,there were also uchiyori who were private retainers of machi-bugyo.
it could be considered that a yoriki was the head of a police station.
yoriki was allowed to ride on a horse,and top-class yoriki officers earned a two hundred and several tens of rice crop,surpassing lower-class hatamoto(direct retainers of the bakufu).
however,yoriki were not allowed to have audience with shogun nor to enter the edo castle.
for a yoriki officer,a residence with around 300 tubo(approximately 3.3 square meters/tubo)of premises was given.
