naiki(government posts)
naiki was honkan,the collective name of government posts,which belonged to nakatsukasasho under the ritsuryo legal code system.
its tang name was kikyoro and chuka.
its japanese reading was 'uchi no shirusutsukasa.'
official duties
naiki was officials under the direct control of nakatsukasasho,and took charge of drafting of imperial messages,imperial edicts,diplomas of court rank,and recording of emperor's activities.
for that reason,good writers among officials and scholars were preferentially appointed naiki,and dainaiki was limited to those who had passed the national examination in history(and chinese literature).
however,in the heian period,the role of naiki was gradually reduced.
naiki was in charge of recording the official activities of the emperor,and was not qualified to enter dairi,the emperor's residence.
when kurododokoro was established and its officials kurodo was qualified to enter dairi,the emperor began to issue imperial orders to daijokan through kurodo;accordingly,the emperor did not need to go out from dairi except for occasions like imperial court events,and eventually the emperor and naiki had less and less contact with each other,which was the reason that naiki lost their duties of recording the emperor's activities.
besides,as geki,the officials in charge of drafting the orders from daijokan,expanded their authority and absorbed the duty of drafting the imperial messages,naiki lost their roles.
naiki was independent from shitokan as the officials under the direct command of nakatsukasasho(i.e.,honkan,isshi)and their office was called naikikyoku.
it is considered that naikikyoku was located to the south of hyoefu.
following the chinese kikyochu,naikikyoku recorded daily activities of the emperor and compiled as 'naikikyoku nikki;' but for the above-mentioned reasons,they ceased that duty in the latter half of the heian period and their documents have been lost except for some superior writings.
officials
dainaiki(senior sixth rank,upper grade)one among two
chunaiki(senior seventh rank,upper grade)two
abolished in 806.
shonaiki(senior eighth rank,upper grade)two
raised to the post corresponding to senior seventh rank,upper grade after chunaiki was abolished.
shisho
established in place of chunaiki for four officials.
