kobushichishoku
kobushichishoku refers to a collective name of craftsmen engaged in seven processes in manufacturing the hikone buddhist altar.
a craftsman engaged in each process is as follows.
kijishi(woodturner)
nushi(lacquer painter)
kinpakuoshishi(craftsman sticking gold leaf)
kudenshi(craftsman assembling small handmade pieces into a roof)
chokokushi(sculptor)
makieshi(craftsman sprinkling gold or silver power,or placing shell on each lacquered part of buddhist altar)
kazarikanagushi(chaser)
comparison with buddhist altars produced in other regions,from the viewpoint of fields undertaken by each craftsman
the name differs,but,this section puts a focus on the difference in the contents of work for each craftsman.
yamagata buddhist altar
since 'makie' (japanese lacquer sprinkled with gold or silver powder)is not provided, 'makieshi' (a gold lacquer master)does not exist naturally.
shirone buddhist altar in niigata
kudenshi' does not exist,and kijishi also manufactures kuden palace.
hakuoshishi' (craftsman of foil-stamping)does not exist,and nushi puts foil after finishing the processes from lacquering to drying,and implements assembly.
nagaoka buddhist altar
kudenshi' does not exist.
details are unknown.
sanjo buddhist altar
nothing is clear.
iiyama buddhist altar
nothing is clear.
mikawa buddhist altar
there are 'kumitateshi' who conduct finishing work incorporated in the work of the buddhist altar shop in hikone.
nagoya buddhist altar
there are tenjoshi who are dedicated solely to making a 'ceiling' which is made by kijishi in hikone.
there are roiroshi who are dedicated solely to 'roiro' (polish)which is one of the processes conducted by nushi in hikone.
chokokushi is divided into maeborishi(dedicated solely to sculpting transom)and uchiborishi(dedicated solely to sculpting parts other than transom).
kazarikanagushi(craftsman for metal ornament)is divided into omotekanagushi(in charge of outside embrowned metal fittings)and uchikanagushi(in charge of glided or not glided metal fittings of shoji(a paper sliding door)and of the inside).
there are 'shitateshi' exists,who are dedicated solely to the final assembly which is incorporated in the work of buddhist altar shop in hikone.
kanazawa buddhist altar
details are unknown.
nanao buddhist altar
nothing is clear.
kyo(kyoto)buddhist altar
there are 'roiroshi' who are dedicated solely to 'polish with charcoal' which is conducted by nushi in hikone.
osaka buddhist altar
there are craftsmen dedicated solely to manufacturing of sumidan(an altar made of fine timber,generally with paneling,hame).
there are craftsmen dedicated solely to only roiro-migaki(polishing roiro).
there are craftsmen dedicated solely to coloring.
hiroshima buddhist altar
a craftsman dedicated solely to manufacturing of sumidan.
yame fukushima buddhist altar
the share of workload is almost the same as in the case of hikone buddhist altar.
kawabe buddhist altar
foil-stamping is incorporated in part of the assembly process.
