kamitsukenu no kuninomiyatsuko
kamitsukenu no kuninomiyatsuko(also known as kamitsukenukokuzo,kamitsuke no kuninomiyatsuko,and kamitsukenokokuzo)was kuninomiyatsuko(local ruling families in ancient japan)ruled kamitsuke province.
this post was originally kenu no kuninomiyatsuko,which was divided into kamitsukenu no kuninomiyatsuko and shimotsukenu no kuninomiyatsuko during the period from the reign of emperor nintoku to the reign of emperor kotoku.
summary
ancestor
according to "nihonshoki",toyokiiruhiko no mikoto,who was a prince of emperor sujin and ordered to rule togoku,was the ancestor of kamitsukenu no kuninomiyatsuko and shimotsukenu no kuninomiyatsuko.
it is said that hikosashima no miko,a grandson of toyokiiruhiko no mikoto,was appointed tosando jugokoku totoku during the reign of emperor keiko,and his son mimorowake no kimi succeeded him and governed well.
clan
the mori clan.
kabane was kimi.
the clan was conferred on asomi in 684,which was the 17th year of the reign of emperor tenmu.
the clan took charge of ruling togoku and frequently fought emishi.
base
kozuke province
present gunma prefecture.
local tutelar deity
akagi-jinja shrine:maebashi city,gunma prefecture.
the enshrined deities are oonamuchi no mikoto and toyokiirihiko no mikoto.
ninomiya in kozuke province.
descendants
kamitsukenu no takahase:a warrior during the kofun period.
he was dispatched as kenshiragishi during the reign of emperor nintoku.
it is said that he found a white deer and presented it to the emperor.
kamitsukeno no tamichi:a warrior during the kofun period.
he was shogun(general who subdues the barbarians)during the reign of emperor nintoku.
it is said that he defeated shiragi but killed in the battle with emishi.
kamitsukeno no okuma:a warrior during the kofun period.
he was kuninomiyatsuko during the reign of emperor ankan.
he also ruled the kanto region and intervened into an internal dispute of the family of musashi no kuninomiyatsuko.
kamitsukeno no katana:a warrior during the asuka period.
he was shogun during the reign of emperor jomei.
he was once defeated by emishi,but with his wife's quick thinking,he rolled back the tide of war.
kamitsukeno no masako:a warrior during the asuka period.
he was shogun during the reign of emperor tenji.
in cooperation with abe no hirafu,he captured a castle of shiragi.
kamitsukeno no michiji:a government official during the asuka period.
he was a scholar during the reign of emperor tenmu.
he was engaged in compiling historical documents with other persons including prince kawashima.
kamitsukeno no kaihito:a government official during the heian period.
he was kentorokushi.
he served as a tutor of prince.
he informed against the retired emperor camp in the kusuko incident.
kamitsukeno no shigeko:a court lady during the heian period.
she was naishinosuke.
she was at junior third rank.
she was a member of the fujiwara no yoshifusa family.
kamitsukenu no nagayo:a government official during the heian period.
he was owarinosuke.
he was at junior fourth rank,lower grade.
he was engaged in compiling jyogankyaku(statue book).
note:
as many mounds including tenjinyama kofun,the biggest kofun in the eastern japan,are found in this area,there might have been a big country different from the yamato kingdom.
