shimotsuunakami kuninomiyatsuko
shimotsuunakami kuninomiyatsuko下海上国造was kuninomiyatsuko(local ruling families in ancient japan)ruled the east part of shimousa province.
it is also written as下菟上国造.
summary
ancestor
according to "kojiki" (records of ancient matters),the ancestor was takehinadori no mikoto.
pseudonyms were takehinadori no mikoto,amenohinatori no mikoto,amenohinaderi no mikoto,and the like.
he was a son of amenohohinokami.
according to "kokuzo hongi" (the original record of provincial governors),oshitateketahi,the 7th descendant from takehiyodori no mikoto,became kamitsuunakami no kunimiyatsuko during the reign of emperor seimu,and a grandson of oshitatutakehi became shimotsuunakami no kunimiyatsuko during the reign of emperor onin.
he was a descendant from kudaranokonikishi(king of paekche),a grandson of emperor bidatsu.
clan
the izumo clan:it was descended from the same line as izumo no kuninomiyatsuko,musashi no kuninomiyatsuko,kamituunakami kuninomiyatsuko,ijimu no kuninomiyatsuko,tootsuomi no kuninomiyatsuko,and the like.
the unakami clan(the osadanohimatsuribe clan).
kabane was mahito.
the clan was descended from the same line as the ohara clan.
the clan served as unakami gunji(local magistrates)during the nara period.
base
unakami gun,shimousa province.
part of the present kaijo gun and katori gun,choshi city,chiba prefecture.
local tutelar deity
the katori-jingu shrine:it was probably located in katori city,chiba prefecture.
ichinomiya,shimousa province.
descendants
osadanohimatsuri no atahitokotari:sakimori(soldiers garrisoned at strategic posts in kyushu in ancient times)during the nara period.
shimotsuunakami kuninomiyatsuko.
his poem is contained in "manyoshu" (the first major anthology of early japanese poetry).
osatabenohimatsuri no jingo:a person during the nara period.
shimotsuunakami kuninomiyatsuko.
unakami gun dairyo.
shijin(lower-rank officers provided to the imperial or noble families and used as a guard or miscellaneous services)of fujiwara no maro.
chugu toneri(officer of the household of the empress).
