kiden hakase(professor of history)
kiden hakase refers to a post established in daigaku-ryo(bureau of education under the ritsuryo system)in the early heian period and taught kidendo(the study of the histories),but,was integrated into monjo hakase(professor of literature)later.
the rank was equivalent to shoshichiinoge(senior seventh rank,lower grade).
on march 8,808,the post of kiden hakase was established by appointing one person from myogyo chokko(teacher of myogyodo(the study of confucian classics))(another group of myogyo hakase(professor of confucian classics)).
conventionally,the history was under the jurisdiction of monjo hakase,and some part was under the jurisdiction of by myogyo hakase.
however,an independent subject was formed at this time.
according to "koninshiki" (the supplemental law determined in the konin era)and so on,the major learning subject was basically an official history of chinese history,and lectures of "shiki" (the chinese historical records), "kanjo" (historical records of the han dynasty)and "gokanjo" (historical records of the later han dynasty),so-called 'sanshi' (three historical records of ancient china),and "jun shu"(history of the jin dynasty), "monzen" (ancient chinese poems)(book)and so on were given.
names of isayama no fumitsugu and sakanoue no imatsugu were recorded as kiden hakase.
it is said that kiden hakase also created kiden kanmon(report about histories)to answer to inquiries from the government.
however,such knowledge of history was required when creating documents such as official documents and chinese poetry,and kidendo(the study of the histories)was integrated with monjodo(literature)on april 1,836 by the idea that it overlapped with monjodo.
as a result of this,the fixed number of kiden hakase was transferred to that of monjo hakase(from one to two),and thereafter, 'kiden hakase' became a common name of monjo hakase(for reference,kidendo existed as the name of subject,and 'monjodo' became its common name).
(it is considered that the description specifying 'monjodo' as the subject name was caused by a confusion in and after the meiji period).
