konoefu(headquarters of the inner palace guards)
konoefu was one of ryoge no kan(official organizations outside of the ritsuryo code).
it was established in 765 by reorganizing jutoei.
sakonoefu(the left division of inner palace guards)and ukonoefu(the right division of inner palace guards)existed.
its head was konoe no daisho(major captain of the inner palace guards)(sakonoe no daisho(major captain of the left division of inner palace guards)for sakonoefu,ukonoe no daisho(major captain of the right division of inner palace guards))for ukonoefu,respectively.
along with(left and right)emonfu(headquarters of the outer palace guards)and(left and right)hyoefu(headquarters of the middle palace guards),they are collectively called 'rokuefu' (six guard divisions).
its other names were 'okichi-kakimamori' and 'chikaki-mamorinotsukasa.'
transition
on march 2,765,jutoei was reorganized into konoefu and on june 5,807,konoefu and chuefu became sakonoefu and ukonoefu as the result of the reorganization of chuefu and konoefu.
incidentally,although there used to be gaiefu,its jobs were distributed to(left and right)konoefu when they were established.
official posts at konoefu
konoe no daisho(major captain of the palace guards)
one person was appointed for each of the left division and right division.
gonkan(provisional post)didn't exist.
according to the shitokan system(four classification of bureaucrats' ranks),it corresponded to kami(the chief)of konoefu.
when konoefu was established on march 2,765,the court rank corresponding to this post was set at shosanmi(senior third rank).
the court rank corresponding to this post was downgraded to jushiinojo(junior fourth rank,upper grade)in 793,but it was upgraded to jusanmi(junior third rank)on june 9,799.
since then,the above became established.
although this post corresponded to jusanmi,it was a more important post than dainagon(chief councilor of state).
this post was concurrently assumed by a person whose post was sangi(councilor)or higher in ancient times,but a person whose post was dainagon or higher was regularly appointed to this post since the middle of the heian period.
konoe no daisho sometimes concurrently assumed the post of 'umagogen' (head of imperial stable).
konoe no daisho was sometimes called by its tang name urin taishogun,shinei taishogun or koga taishogun.
sakonoe no daisho and ukonoe no daisho were sometimes called by their abbreviations 'sadaisho' and 'udaisho' respectively.
chujo
one to four persons were appointed for each of the left division and the right division.
according to the shitokan system,it corresponded to suke(the deputy).
as shosho was also 'suke,' it was called 'oi-suke.'
when konoefu was established on march 2,765,the court rank corresponding to this post was set at jushiinoge(junior fourth rank,lower grade).
since then,the above became established.
one person was appointed to this post at the beginning,but the number of personnel was increased later and the post of gonkan was created.
later,this post was abolished in effect while only gonkan continued to exist.
when a person whose court rank was sanmi(third rank)was appointed to this post,such a person was called 'sanmi no chujo.'
when a person whose official post was sangi was appointed to this post,such a person was called 'saisho no chujo.'
further,when kurodo no to(head chamberlain)was concurrently appointed to this post,such a person was called 'tono chujo.'
konoe no chojo was sometimes called by its tang name shinei churosho,shinei shogun or urin shogun.
also,konoe no chujo was sometimes called by its other name 'mikasayama' (mt.mikasa)or 'jisho' together with shosho mentioned below.
shosho
two to four persons were appointed to each of the left division and right divisions.
according to the shitokan system,it corresponded to suke(the deputy),and was called 'sunai-suke' (small suke)because chojo was also 'suke.'
when konoefu was established on march 2,765,the court rank corresponding to this post was set at shogoinoge(senior fifth rank,lower grade).
since then,the above were established.
one person was appointed to this post at the beginning,but later the number of personnel was increased to two when the post of extraordinary konoe no shosho was abolished on june 30,781.
the post of gonkan was created before long,and later,this post was abolished in effect while only gonkan continued to exist.
its responsibilities were almost the same as those of chujo.
when a person whose court rank was shii(fourth rank)was appointed to this post,such a person was called 'shii no chujo.'
there were cases where a person whose court rank was nii(second rank)was appointed to this post.
konoe no shosho was sometimes called by its tang name urinrosho,shineirosho,urinchurosho,asho or kohon churosho.
as both konoe no chujo and konoe no shosho corresponded to suke based on the shitokan system,they were also called konoe jisho.
the total number of konoe jisho of the left and right division was set at eight in 1098.
people from tosho family(hereditary linage of court nobles)usually became kugyo(the top court officials)after successively serving as jiju(chamberlain),emon no suke(assistant captain of the outer palace guard)and konoe jisho.
the above are executives and other people were called konoe toneri.
shogen
1 to 10 persons were appointed for each of the left division and right divisions,and this post corresponded to jo based on the shitokan system.
when konoefu was established on march 2,765,the court rank corresponding to this post was set to jurokuinojo(junior sixth rank,upper grade).
shogen played a role of on-site commander and organized the guard and security system.
persons whose court rank was goi(fifth rank)were appointed to this post were called sakontayu shogen or ukontayu shogen.
they were usually called sakontayu or ukontayu by abbreviating the term shogen.
there were tang names for sangun,such as shineigun chori,shinei koi and rokuji.
shoso
4 to 20 persons were appointed for each of the left division and right divisions,and this post corresponded to sakan based on the shitokan system.
when konoefu was established on march 2,765,the court rank corresponding to this post was set to jushichiinoge(junior seventh rank,lower grade).
shoso played a role of commander on the site under the authority of shogen and directly commanded their subordinates.
bancho(also known as tsugai no osa)
six persons were appointed for each division,and they led the way riding on horseback when the emperor or high-ranking officials went out.
konoe
approximately 300 persons were appointed for each division.
there were other posts than the above.
duties
konoefu was responsible for guarding the inside of dai-dairi(precinct of the imperial palace and government offices)surrounded by senyo-mon gate,shomei-mon gate,inmei-mon gate and genki-mon gate.
people of konoefu accompanied when the emperor went out.
it was also in charge of the guard for imperial families and high-ranking court officials.
